[Music]
Hi, I have to do something with Slid.
similar no
fantastic
I don't ask anything because I want it
share with with
all
that reflects me a little is not
uncomfortable as the reflection makes you uncomfortable
Same Not really
Don't you think it's better if I put it like that big?
whoever is speaking or the whole
small group
It doesn't matter No, it doesn't matter to me It doesn't matter to me
The thing is that I don't have much control
Well, I mean, I thought he was me.
was left as
static
But now you're here, okay? Well, look at us.
I'm going to introduce you to the launches and that's it
Well, I'll leave you free to go.
say it then it's worth it. So that's it.
is recording I understand it is not recording
s okay I'll cut it if you tell me that
cut we started a
[Music]
spot
Well then, let's go there.
come
Come on, well then. Let's see, say when you want.
Myth is the march of someone more determined
join ok come on done ok Oh hello
spark
hello what
such Vale
Well, I also understand that we
we can briefly present to
people who then don't seem to understand
that you will be able to see the
recording equal No
Well, we already had As a wish not to
We are just saying our names
here no yaso gard and and
Fernández we had a desire to say
our pronouns do not perhaps use
she she and I she and we had desire
also to tell you that we are leaving
If I am a psychiatrist, no. And you, chaso.
psychologist no eh but like something like that
not at all like that you just caught us
at a time with quite a plan
to unpick at the end of the year no
eh We hope so and stop using
the titles for nothing no and that and not as
I had wanted to say no to this
was our position after testing
many ways and what and what we do
because our position right now is
which is to defund the services of
mental health and not trying to reform them
Okay, we're going to talk to you too.
From that conclusion and what we are going today
to explain Here is also part of
that conclusion is not an experience that
has also built that conclusion
There have also been others not like me
before reviewing what we wanted to tell
I didn't remember that there have been others that
For example, for me they have not been the
experience the pilot dialogue project
open in the calad enares in its future
his intervention, his closing, that too
It is another experience that contributes to
This and many more that we have had no
and that and that for me it was important
because with some conversations that
Sometimes we have no, ...
of underfunding
from difficult situations no
and and
Well, anyway, Ah, we had signed up
another thing not said That for you it was
important to say no if you want to say no
the thing about
Ah, and I was also getting my bearings.
that also to say that we are being
before we talked about it, it seems a bit difficult for us
It is also complicated to talk about all this and
where are we going to bring it from but oh well
that's just not in this one
experience that we are now going to go through
to tell you we also wanted to tell you
that neither Olaya nor
I have not been part of
no corporation or any
Mental Health institution throughout
what we have been doing so far
no and that is also what it is
important to say it Well for things that
They may come out later but yes,
we have been linked to a project
which is called the Porvenir and which during
the moment we are in
participating in this initiative that
Let's count now and now then
we live with 900 that this also as
that it is important that we tell it
after things are better understood
as we are going to go
counting but well, like that's what it is
Maybe to remove the mystery of it
What are we going to tell you? Well, that's what we want you to know.
tell an experience that lasted from
June 2021 to April 2022
2023 political experience that was
inside the umbrella not the section
of human rights of the association
Spanish neuropsychiatry school, which is the
I'll also send you the link here
so that you can
to snoop and well, maybe not to explain, no
Well, the AEN is an association
that
we wouldn't say I don't know, let's go I don't know what
we call it progressive but
that then well not with this thing of of
public pronouncement that it is not
assumes that he does not receive money
pharmaceutical companies to stay that way
Bet on reform, not attention
different and more human within the
Mental Health service that would be good
as an analogy of the PSOE in
Spain or something like that too to locate us
as if I had felt him give a
little bit of map especially equally
people from other countries to give it to
context of what we are going to
and that in Spain the same in the state
Spanish is this of what would be a
little the equivalent of the PSOE not with its
parts that are financed with the
industry would not want to or do not do it
there but they do it in the works no
usual and and there is this other one this one
another large associative structure
professional that is Spanish society
of biological psychiatry which would be a
little like the equivalent of the match
popular or rather it is a way just like
to explain the map not the same as before
I was like starting here, Chaso and
I thought well association of
professionals like we can, there are no
or if there is good I had it there in common
head to give it a spin anyway
So, well, as you were saying, this is not
as if what we are going to tell is a
experience that lasted that time in June
April 2021
2023 which was called rights section
humans of the Spanish Association of
neuropsychiatry of the
aen and that ended not with the resignation in
block of all participants in
between me and a number of other people
We will tell a little approximately no Y
This resignation arrived which is what you
We are also going to explain after months of
attempts by the State board of directors
of the laen
to supervise, to control, not to have
our behavior our actions
noo when we talked about it we said
repression no and I
I find it hard to use the word but it is still
the
word and well as we have
structured some blocks to go
ordering not a little Then equal to
That helps me tell you not that what
We are going to tell you why we did it.
This is why we got into this matter
from the human rights section of the
not the same as how we did it when
we entered and what we did What things
passed
and and for
finish What was the result Not what it is
what has happened How it is arrived not what
What's happening with this resignation thing?
So, well, we'll get into it anyway.
This of What for it
we did and and I'll start telling the same thing
part not in which you are not yet
You had added that it is like a little path
A little while beforehand you were not going to say yes
It might help later on.
understand that there were more of us
Okay, so it's like we wanted it.
explain as well as the first thing
that we did it because the truth is that
the opportunity presented itself you know it wasn't
a thing as a priori fancied or
planned no but and this opportunity is
presented as in two moments no and in
reality this opportunity has
quite a bit to do with the rules of the
game no and the logic that those have
large associative structures not that
which generally have quite a history
with having and preserving spaces although
are empty of content and not and that and
It also happens that they are generally slow
to react when its participants
they do other things, that is, because it is not
usual No it is not usual for example
in this organization Well, that's it
skip like the corporate for example
which is what we are going to talk about today, not as
questioning one's own then good
It also gives context to tell you that this
human rights section of the EN
existed many years ago and long before
of this no But that paradoxically
had never engaged in abuse
intrinsic to psychiatry for me
paradoxically, except yes, then
remembering you know like that except that yes
that there were sometimes positions
public in the form of a press release
statements things like that when
announced that a
new psychiatric prison or that they were going to
open or expand places in units of
medium or long stay things like this
type but what they traditionally did
It was not about getting involved or focusing on the abuses
of the practices of psychiatry
but to do it as in other spaces or
be for example a thing that I did have in
Its historical section was to assess the
abuses that exist in other contexts such as
I didn't think about prisons and police stations
fza that of course we applaud no and
also another thing that had a history of
to do was to raise not as attention
inappropriate let's say call
inadequate
and that they understood that it was given in fields
of refugees or in situations
thus crossed more by the non-Y gender
like my reflection when thinking about
This was something that we did not applaud so much.
No, but we don't applaud it that much because
We understand that it does not go to the heart of the matter
the core issue of psychiatry
the problem is not good psychiatry
and bad psychiatry is not something
so but well The fact is that in a
given moment in the history of this
section were going to be given a selection and
The fact is that they didn't have people for the
new candidacy not in this logic that
I tell you to perpetuate the space not without
that there was an internal sense
probably and then to me
It happened to me that a person in which I
He wasn't social or anything so he contacted me.
so that he could enter and I don't know if
It is then thinking I thought I would be
that I had the image of a progressive psychiatrist
At that time I don't know, I thought not.
I was going to be such a pain in the ass that I was going to
I don't know exactly how to bother you, but I do
They said and I with the people with whom in
that moment he spoke and so more than
I thought in common because it was like that
We talk and God, well, it's still a good one.
platform a good speaker not to put
self-criticism of practices
common in psychiatry in the
center no And use it as it has a
historical and has a weight and all that
no, it's not the same, it's not easier, no
influence some things both inside
of the structure that there are many people
associated as in the services where
They work as a public speaker
You know why they come out many times in
the press asks them for statements, things
and and well The thing is that we said I said
Yes, but I said yes and we came
all the people who were walking
thinking no Or rather like we do
entering four or five no and we get
put inside the section as a group
work based on self-criticism
the practices of psychiatry but it was
a working group living together
understand not as with the others who
were still there and with people who are
that this perspective of putting the focus on
the same thing directly in the meyo
Well, it quickly began to bother
tense no And this is what led us to
the second chance is not what it is
This tension increased increased increased
ended in a call through
elections in these formal circuits
that have these structures and that was it
where we had the opportunity to
submit a complete application, let's go
to say and there chaso is when I don't eat
we make Pineapple and and and that the whole section
position in which what is going to be done
occupy is the self-criticism of the
common practices in psychiatry
no and and
and no and nothing and that's it and that's it, that's it, no
like This is the thing Ah well Yes
Well, and then explain that what
we are going to count is that period in which
that the whole section is already focused on
this position is not desired in this position
and with conviction to do so in the
practice not with a conviction to do
manifestos neither to write nor to
publish articles but to do things
in the
practice you know like like I thought that
I don't know what this was the other day
Think about it, let's not know if it's true.
You want to explain, don't you know, what it was?
the O is from
where from where it
holding on to this as if it were something to bear
No, I mean we thought, well then, since
We are people, eh, who have the
possibility of accessing a space such as
this to a speaker like this good
let's do it to see what happens to other people
They will never be able to access it is not a
of the reasons not of
take advantage of it too Not that just for the
that you also mentioned about having the
titles in favor not because
I'm thinking now not about the people who
We formed the section because there were people with
psychiatrist and psychology degrees
social work social education
Nursing with a specialization in Mental Health
So we had like
Well yes, like some artifacts
let's say in the form of a title that we
They also allowed for legitimacy
to speak and to question in certain
spaces not because they are also things that
I don't know, I remember now, no, well
that also eh Well eh well that both
It has cost us to get rid of it too, not that
I understand that because I know how to have the
title because you also know how to talk about
a certain way you know how to use them
codes that are going to give
valid institutions and The
professionals no. I mean, in the end
We tried all of that as if
try to think what was the way to
start to question eh to the
services and to the people we believed in
who were exercising violence
against other people who were in
situation of greater vulnerability goes
well that was kind of the idea but
eh Like that's also another of the things
as if we had it like that in our heads and
which I then believe is also one of the
initiatives that were also cut short
like this that I remember this from the
days that there was a desire to set up
when we had not yet resigned No
this from which part of
and part of everything that was attempted to be done
I wasn't trying to check, I wasn't trying to check
play up to how far we could
contribute to making this triad of
truth, justice and reparation not of
damage in psychiatry that was like a little
the purpose we had but well that
that of course how we did it and and that
what did we do here? Of course, they are a
a lot of things that I don't know if we've covered yet
in this case or what For me yes, go for it
Well, this is not as I mentioned, since
there was in this candidacy not that
we present and that the only focus is not that
that we agreed to have all the
people who were there was violence
psychiatric professional self-criticism
Well, the journey began in June of
2021 no then because this board
eh it was formed by different partners
let's say we were there and then
collaborators were not people who
they did eh or participated in
Well, on specific occasions or with
concrete initiatives that this is also
something that was allowed by it
by the same association, not like that
the association could have people
collaborator and well in the end we
We put together approximately 10
people and what we did was open a
email so that we can be contacted
I wrote No, because people who used
services and working people
And well, of course one thing that is true
It was quite curious that we did not do
no type of diffusion nor did we have
wish So of not of suddenly Put
speaker in which we existed or something like that and
that they still started to arrive to us, eh?
Well, many more reports of situations
of which we could grasp the truth
that this happened from the very beginning and
So, well, we understand that this
Well, maybe it could have been. No, well.
because of course some of the people who
we were there we had a previous fabric
not in relation to the crazy movement
people who were thinking of doing the
things differently or more from
places like this of critical professionals
something like that then well the position
that we had inside to do things in the
section was not quite autonomous not that
each one could be grouped with the
people who had a desire to group together
within the section to start not to a
push concrete initiatives and that
the desire was therefore quite disobedient
be quite disobedient because
and clear for this of
generate spaces for self-criticism and do
actions in this regard
Well, we are talking about that good
You know, I don't think that people who
we are here I think we think not that
psychiatry eh And no and the and the
The equipment in general is very airtight
very hierarchical, very corporatist
then of course not directly for
to question a service does not stop
directly contact a
professional that no no that maybe well
It has reached you that he is exercising
violence and with a non-punitive desire
but of wanting to do other things because
Of course you have to skip a lot of
borders and a lot of codes
So of course the desired one was like
Do it from there, so don't ask for permission.
not to report to the AEN not to report
accounts and also use it a lot as
speaker not to tell people and not
respect hierarchies and more than anything
like it was working a little with what
I arrived yes it is true that there are certain
initiatives that I don't know if you
Do you also remember that certain things
It didn't occur to us to push from the
section that we may tell later
but like many other things with which
that we were starting not to to to to let's say
to fight us were with competitions
specific ones that arrived in the mail that did not
They were our own initiatives, of course.
the same also in this matter of
and decide to respond to what was asked eh
that I think this is also
novel because it's like changing people
here on the brand No but in a real way and
also the group because now
I thought that the Chaso collaborators would do it
It was already bothering me that there weren't people there.
that what I wasn't doing was
write book chapters or or
manifestos or press statements
but calling services that will be the
Things we will tell you, eh? How much now?
It would bother more than those people
sometimes they were those around the
person who had suffered the damage and
because the group that we could also
to do for a specific thing had to be done
see with questioning the context not That is
that there was also an approach
very little service or something like that or
delegation but of of of of joining not
to join together or something like that
understanding that even if the person in
question is in a relative position of
risk would not be, it would not have to be, eh No
It's not that, but yes, I mean, I think it is
understand So there were many twists and turns
This is about culture, not about the
cultural disobedience of the previous ones of
organizations
like almost all of us or
the ones we have then no
Well this is a bit like the the as it is
we did not do this thing about mail people and let's see
What's happening? And what was happening with this thing?
directly for the previous work done
the previous tissues then no Good
Then we wanted to tell you something about the
It is true that it seemed to us very
great because trillions of have passed
things and long complex with many
branches and so on but we have tried as
choose some specific ones that we think
that
Well, they could give quite a bit of image or
give you an idea of ​​what things were happening
or what things we didn't get into or what
Things We were asked to answer then
Well, for example, I'll start with you.
seems
It's worth an example, it doesn't happen ... to us.
It happens at a given moment that a
psychiatry resident at the hospital of
Leganes in Madrid, which I liked
remember for people like others
places that is one of the hospitals By
certain famous people of the reform and as with
with
Yes, yes, with a reputation as a good practice
Well, I'm not saying it from that hospital.
I say it in a punitive way, in a way
debunk the myths and start being able to
question why if we don't do this
It is very difficult to move forward not in a plan that
Now let's punish Leganés.
because these things that we are going to tell the
It's true that they happen everywhere but
They also happen in Elan, it's not what
I mean they also happen in those
hospitals
mythologizing the good case that happens here
that a resident tells us that the
therapist of a person being treated
there in the center in this in this in this
Madrid mental health service Well
that has taken advantage of the spaces of
teaching of the people who do the
psychiatry and psychology residency
nursing that they usually have for
inform them, not half inform them half
require them that when a person
who attends specifically go to the emergency room
that they must use their Dead name and that
They must use gender pronouns like this
know instead of using your name and the
chosen pronouns This is what he says
and this therapist also explains, eh
psychological theories on the
convenience not to proceed in this way
way no And also eh putting this on
therapist the authority to tell the
rest on your position yours
psychological hypotheses about the other
person eh this authority is sufficient
so that it can be generalized to the whole
service for the good of the person
attended This is the story worth that we
We found that transphobia.
eh important then Well then what
We will contact you in that case
with the hospital's teaching committee
We wrote to them, we had the possibility
by by Well by the previous tissues and
for the purpose of having contacts not of
What people were tutors of residents
In that hospital we sent them an email
in common not to a coordinating person
that this is not like that either
skip the hierarchies but all the
people who participated
there eh to tell you that we had
known of this not reporting the fact and
We asked them for a meeting to talk about
How to repair the damage that had been done
and also How to transform culture
of the service because this would have
past a therapist can't do this
with this impunity in this way with
This tranquility in such a context
Well, it clearly speaks of what there is to it
that it is a general space with
These values ​​circulating I do not want to say
I mean, I think I explain myself, done, that is, you
You tell me, hey, if I'm just messing around, but
and we had already heard about it
some time ago and one had already been made
intervention through the Madrid A
a rather lukewarm intervention but one
intervention on a situation of a
Violation of a woman admitted for a
man also admitted and had
made with that an answer eh or that is
how terrifying terrifying that is
then it was like they were already like that too
a lot of data to understand that the
service
eh eh Well then open the
conversation about How to walk towards another
Okay so this was the proposal
what we did to them
And by the way, for others, well, he also came.
We did not manage to get to the meeting
meeting to meeting was also not a
trans activist to help
open your mind and think about more things
that had nothing to do with the e nor with
the section or to have also more more
voices we made quite a few offers in
common of
participate in this cultural change
but the truth is that in the end it is not
Neither accepted nor met
They agreed that we wouldn't go there either.
nor other groups and what is
They did it. Very cement, the truth was.
set up training for residents
as if the matter were not out of the question
reside I don't know a formation for
residents inviting some psychiatrists
feminists known here in Madrid for
that the residents understand had
something like another one is available
perspective not That is, instead of facing
not like the seriousness of what happened and
from that try to change what
there was passing offered to
residents another perspective This was
everything that what
We got Ok then a
example another example or do you want to continue
Look, if you want, we can do one and one, that is.
I'm going now and so come on, okay
Well, another example like that, so I
I would like to tell you it was an attempt to
restorative justice process not with
a person who us
wrote to the section's email that
Well, don't tell us what he writes to us.
a woman with a history of having been
victim of much psychiatric violence
eem writes to us with a first request
I don't know what it has to do with what you
They were putting many obstacles in the way
Infant Honor Hospital to collect their
history to the clinician because he wanted to see no
which was what it was like if there was a note
there was a mandate that each of them be tied up
time I went to an emergency room
emergency visit and then
through this we began to accompany
This process in common and another
colleague from the section and I don't but
Well, among other things, well, it's part of
what he also told us and part of what
who denounced the section was also
that because of the side effects
of the dequine and that prescribed him
psychiatrist, well, he ended up developing
near-fatal hepatitis and weeks of
hospitalization then well eh
when it started It seems to be not like her
He recounted that when he started with the
symptoms and discomfort associated with
taking of the
antiepileptic Well, he called his
psychiatrist to tell him and not to
He must have taken it very seriously that
In the end I told him that these symptoms were
They had to do mainly with the
anxiety that she already had not because
It seemed that he also had a kind of
diagnosis associated with anxiety
These hypotheses of psychiatry
So well, it ended up going to
emergency room and was admitted immediately
So, well, after what
He never saw his psychiatrist again.
because he changed this service
It is also quite common that
we have also been finding the
section and well she made us the
request to arrange a meeting with him
eh Not the one she was in
and we were also people of
the section to be able to tell you about your
experience what she had lived through
after the invalidation of his
suffering from side effects
from the dequine and everything to start a process of
reparation of the damage received not the desire
that I already had was this then
Well after many actions
for months not in which we participated
both the section and her and her
environment well eh In the end we arrived at a
I agree to try to get in touch
with the psychiatrist to start these
conversations and then from the
aen human rights section
we issued a
direct communication to the psychiatrist in the
that we explained to him the desire that
We had And then like that
We proposed, well, that we could
think together about how it would also be
good for him to be able to get together not for
start having conversations
respect and well he finally rejected
the petition did not and claimed that it was found
not with her and talk about the subject again
would harm their adherence to the
treatment with the current psychiatrist who
I had no then like that good that that
It also happens to me that as later in the
conclusions we have drawn such as
We will talk about this but well, I think
which are examples that do not give much account
from then on from the violent potential that
has psychiatry no and then of the
secrecy that exists regarding
transform services and care
wow but well, I think that
We'll talk about this now too. So
I don't know if you want to continue. Well, yes, I
something is missing eh or if you think it deserves the
It's a shame that you explain something more, no, no, I don't
It seems very clear, I stay, I go back to
impact of the argument not to not
sit down and talk and listen to the damage
that there was
exercised Okay, so I'm going to go with one
a little long eh what does it have to do with
with Santa Isabel with a hospital
Hey, from León, who has a medium-sized unit
Stay I guess that around here is good
Maybe people know that they are quite
the equivalents of the mental asylum and
that they look quite similar then
Well, it happens to us that at a given moment
José Alfredo contacts us by email and
I'm going to say his name because Jose
Alfredo has a Public profile of this
history and well, well, what what what
I'm going to tell you that because you'll like it.
So, well, José contacts us.
Alfred who is a person who is 20
peak years no and that has been locked up since
It's been at least a year now.
or something like that in the media unit
Santa Isabel's stay in León Not in
the moment is already evident to him and
also for us that its existence
not being that age and being locked up in
a center of last resort not as it is
It is assumed that it is a unit of average
Estancia is an example not like the
disaster that is the Mental Health network and
the truth that the disaster of the
Reforma happens before we meet
before writing to us José Alfredo did not
is already setting up online meetings at
that invites groups
eh crazy and not crazy of the
state that is already recording videos from
from the center of the psychiatric hospital and
spreading it on networks Not that it has already
done some hunger strike and that already
has like a training or a
prior to thinking of strategies to
unhinge the staff, go on, go on
When we met José Alfredo, he was already
has politicized the confinement, that is to say
form, well, I would say very radical and He
The thing is that what we did was
join those meetings that
He summoned not with other people who were
of the most varied, heterogeneous and
changing also not as I remember
many meetings and in that process of
of listening and speaking and listening to the rest
We also came to understand that the desire
José Alfredo's main objective was not to go out
from there of the psychiatric hospital but rather
that José Alfredo's wish was not
end the psychiatric hospital end with
that and finish with all but finish with
that one I was in no. I mean like that
It didn't exist to narrate and hack it to put it
in evidence not as if it entered into
maximum contradiction and you explode or something
not like that and the truth is that I had many
a lot not like a lot of intelligence And a lot
analysis to do things in that
line but good in all these
conversations Well it was being useful that
we did different things in different
moments not the people who we
we committed to those
conversations that we were also
changing and increasing and varying not by
circumstances of different types And well
Well, it seemed that he pointed out some things.
I saw that pointed out, well, for example
when they were trying to incapacitate
We wrote a report for you, no, eh? How
human rights section of the en
against indicating the incapacity to
that his lawyer should present him in the
judgment this for example something else happened
What happened was that there was a moment that
this tension thing
eh from your position there in the hospital eh
they increased his drug dose
psychiatric Well, we participate in these
conversations with more people to set up a
strategy for people of the
collective calls every day not to
hospital phone introducing himself as
part of José Alfredo's network and
saying that he saw him very sleepy that
I wanted this that was not understood by the
speak that I couldn't think or rather like
complaining or espav showing up at the
dose of medication I have not complained about
sedation wow and this was one
strategy that was set up was done and that
got her to lower other things
What we did for example was ask for
written the rules of the center this very
at the beginning as a Rights section
Humans since that is publicly not
They were accessible, we didn't look for them much.
They were hanging, I don't know what we asked for.
They never sent us anything other than
we did that took us a long time and
which in fact eh eh the first movement
It was only possible because José Alfredo
He put down the phone while he was talking
with me to the psychiatrist in the sheep and that's it
It was a situation I don't suppose so
uncomfortable that had to have in the end
we finally got the conversation
meet with the director of the
hospital and with the coordinator of the
unit where José Alfredo is and
well, it was a long conversation and
And there it seemed or it is good they said
that they promised that we would go
go ahead with the idea of
transformation of the practices that are
They were going to leave. So they were going to allow.
that we came in and that we did a
common work to get to another place
You know that the center moved
And then what were they going to organize?
a meeting between people of the
section José Alfredo and the entire team of
the unit where José was
eh To start what I tell you about the
transformation was going to be to put you in two
weeks then in a month then why not
I know that I don't know how much later they didn't answer
the emails well It never happened like no
Another thing that happened was that we did
contact the Regional Office of
Mental Health of Castilla y León in charge
from that hospital and many others and them
and we tell them everything that we don't
provided the rules that there was a
opacity with that So we couldn't
discuss them and that they had failed to
commitment to organize the meetings
Well, the Regional Office of Castilla
Leo never answered us either, that is to say,
first diplomatic mail of Yes Good
Let's see what this is about and I don't know
What And we never wrote to them again and
I will never upload a response again, what else with
the ones we did that you already know about this
You will remember a lot of disappointment because we gave him
many turns and already generate many
alternatives in this strategy of yours
generate the absurdity of confinement and
Saint Elizabeth no and and among these as
that we had in common you and I
Well, it had to do with this thing of finishing
generating a basic income of 900 no
like the one you and I have, for example
by gathering 18 people not that
put 50 a month for a
total year we took some practices of
economic redistribution that we were
some people living in this other
Porvenir project eh And it is not
accumulated experience because we put it
here and we had many many
conversations to do this no
as a strategy of these to put in
short circuit Not because things of the
Exit from the medium-stay units
They have to do with having or not having
money to have or not to have the capacity to
generate it having a job not having or not having
have a life plan then don't eat
This basic income thing, well, I put it in
I put in like hacking there okay And I
This wouldn't count any more than what H Chaso said.
José Alfredo because it's like he's very
long as for me if you want to continue
you with another one that I think we're going to
good timing is just right too
Looking, I think we're doing well, but oh well
I am just not the one who is right now
I have to tell what it seems to me
tremendous in the sense that it also does not
that was part of an initiative that
I think in this case, eh, it wasn't that much.
by an external complaint but it was
at the request of some of those who
we were there in the non-de section
initiate a process in this regard and
Well, it's quite long but I have
tried to summarize it a lot
because it has also taken us quite a while
time But well not the desire that
we had was to collect different
news that had appeared in
press and high-profile cases of abuse
sexual eh by professionals
eh to patients in health services
mental of the State no And then as
after making this mapping not of the
the news that we had gone as if to
have the excuse of questioning or something like that
I don't know what had happened in the
last time not when we got with
This initiative Well, apart from
This is what we were also trying to open
conversations with the services where
happened to explore the measures that
had taken or something like that to protect and
repair the damage to the victims no and and and
also with with Well also with a
idea of ​​collecting ideas or not
enable the transformation of the
services not after this happened
then then
Well
We tried to initiate communications with
three different services that were not
the psychiatric services of the
Prince of Asturias Hospital, Alcalá de Henares
Nares of the Ramon Cajal Hospital
Madrid and the Virgen del Rocío Hospital
From Seville I'm going to Virgen del Rocío
from Seville and I'm going to stop by here
the chat three news that they were dealing with
the aggressions eh But well that the one who
What happened in Alcalá had to do with the fact that
It was revealed that a psychiatrist was
abusing many patients and that
then he committed suicide eh And in the other two
cases and eh the abuses came from
from orderlies to female patients
also then good
I'll tell you that the only service that
agreed to be interviewed or agreed
to initiate communications or
conversations in this regard was the
Nares mayor's service, eh? And no
when it is true that it was not a
I find it quite tense and difficult not to
Well, because they came, it seems to me that
There were four professionals who are
currently working there not with a
position also quite defensive and
without really understanding why
request for talks eh But oh well
within what we could not talk and
Well, this is not like the measures that
basically implemented in the service
of psychiatry after the attacks because
They were to provide psychological support to
the victims and then leave them printed on
the consultations and in the spaces of
free circulation of movement as well as
service, then some tokens or something like that
some information sheets that
They explained what should or should not be done
expect it to happen in a consultation
Mental Health would not be like the
measures that they told us they had
carried out after this
are absolutely insufficient but that
also not what you said too
olaya this happens everywhere
which is also a matter of not criminalizing
and that we do not have a punitive desire no Y
Everything we've done from here has
had to do more with the
transformative justice But well that
to say no that This was the only being
I say he sat with us and then
The Ramón y Cajal hospital was not there for us.
giving a lot of delays, not deriving
eh from the hospital and that in the end was in
that there was no possible meeting and the
Virgen de Rocío hospital never arrived nor
not even to answer any messages and
Eh, well, eh, then of course it's like
everything is not like everything we've been through
pretending that of course he arrived, that is
like I don't want to get ahead of myself no
when for all this the Why not
but well, that's why Hello, you already
I give you the word so that you can tell the
next ok Because also the
next now I'm the same
integrating completely now but I think that
the next one right in the with the
outcome unravels the following
the following unravels has to do with
something inside has nothing to do with it
with which at a given moment an activist
crazy man from Galicia with whom we have
ichaso and I eh we had eh don't let us know
that some statements have come out in
television of the new president of the
because there is a moment when it changes
the board I don't know what and in fact it's like
He announces it a lot as if it is a meeting
more hopeful because it is more
multidisciplinary there is representation of
several professional roles have less
psychiatric hierarchy not as if the
They count as a kind of Hope
s easier to move forward or that
some things are changing
structural within the services of
mental health, eh, with the roles and so on
Well, the thing is this person who is
psychologist comes out and tells us what he has done
statements on television that
we see and indeed they are some
statements that are also relevant
from crazy pride day to which it is
even more unfortunate to give it
prominence to a psychiatrist
that day and on top of that to say why
that comes out saying has to do with
justify is a cut in which a little
as it justifies the need to tie up
some people in some
circumstances no or so as it does
a kind of position that it is a
practice because it's not very desirable or something
so or it is a mistake So it is a
error that is like a failure of the whole
system I don't know how it does something like that
but then it doesn't seem to end up saying
that that that good that in some
circumstances In some moments then
like there's no other option or something like that
So, well, that's it.
Well, when they notify us, it's like
What we do is write to the whole
State Board of the in telling them Well
that we have heard about this and that
We asked them for a meeting because well
Well, it does seem like a horror to us and that
We want it for the same reason that you said
Chaso not be not with a single intention of
not to point and stone but with a spirit of
Let's take advantage of the fact that this comes out sometimes
emerges so clearly as to
accept that this is what is in the
heads and to make movements for
transform to transform the
concrete practices in the places
concrete no And in the end we asked for the
meeting and he comes he doesn't come he comes this one
president and Enton explains to us if you
Do you remember? Well, of course, it's good that there has been
been misunderstood that they have cut him off
the conversation is not like it is a cut
where they then explain other things to us that
It was not a statement for Lía
of crazy pride but for something else
Well, he is like sad, he explains to us
also that
that has called the television this
to complain that I don't know what he asks us to do
Let's apologize not to the groups
crazy people who have communicated with us
that is going to make a statement
Do you remember this that is going to make a
public statement saying that no
think that zero containment that no
there is such and all this no and we are left
there no Or rather like with good certain
surprise of something breast like a
some doubt that perhaps it has
there has been something of journalistic malfeasance No
I know and maybe they will happen
some things no because as in passing
presents to us that we had not had
interaction and I kind of remember
that as a thing of Good will be true
that maybe these new people who
Now he's here and wants to do other things.
or it will expand more not this proposal that
we bring self-criticism and do things
so but the truth is that it is not true
It's what happens a lot later
It is the beginning of months of attempts to
control of our behavior that is
They start not that maybe that is what it
that now we are going to get into it
final stretch if you want to ask later
in these attempts not to intervene
of behavior control that I
I agree that as they begin or my
I remember they have to do with what they start
as to call us to talk about what
we do not go a person start as
or several people go and start like
to say that how good it can't be
This is not that we are calling the
services by communicating with them
services eh without them knowing anything without
know nothing about the State Board of the e no
like a kind of thing that
we would have to tell him before because
There are members who are upset
members of the workers of
the services that are upset with that
they have been questioned and that
so what what what of course we have
like a kind of thing like I would have to
pass through your filter for your permission by
your knowledge or something like that is not to this
request from the beginning we do not
we positioned ourselves in no we were not going to give
account we weren't going to ask permission or anything
and in fact, well, it's like a
meaningless no I mean in processes of
supervision of practices or
observation or criticism How are you going to
ask anyone's permission to intervene
So in short, no, we were not going to
do none of that started with that not in
my head started with that and a little bit after
that a little bit after our no no started
the issue of non-payment of fees this
We may have to explain a little bit, though.
so that people understand what it means
no, it's the same to tell you that since
In the beginning, many of the people who
we were in the section we did not pay the
membership fee of the laen who have a
annual fee set as many
associations
we paid for it in different ways
reasons but many but all
intertwined no we do not pay for it because
many people were doing that
We don't collect people's salaries at all
service worker to whom
were those quotas directed but
we lived with salaries for example
This is what we explained to you about the 900 just
by the positions
not policies in which we already have
time and decisions not to reorganize
our vi to enter these
Justice processes
Total transformative that for everything
That is also to understand that we were
putting the body daily so as not to
stop things or in short that we had not
sense to the quota for many reasons nor
sense neither justice nor anything and we decided
not paying Olaya fees from the beginning
Sorry to interrupt you but
quotas that by the way are different or
they have a different price
depending on the professional category
to which you belong, that's another O
Of course it was not the same thing as
would pay a person with a degree
nursing than a person with a degree in
psychiatry Of course when you are with
the logic of health services
mental makes sense because the fork
salary between some professions and others
It's huge not when you're in other
logics like the ones we already inhabit, you and
This doesn't make any sense to me because
there is no longer a difference, a difference
with that no but oh well The fact is that
There was that but we had already decided
not paying in the we are going to say the
the previous board's term is valid
so that you understand, that had already happened
had his claim that we pay and now
we had had our conversations
that we are not going to pay and we had explained
all these reasons and the previous board
had accepted that indeed not
we paid the fees this was about
written in emails and all that with this
change of board because at this moment already
I tell you when they start trying
controlling behavior returns the
issue of quotas no And then we
They say that if we don't pay the fees before
from the end of the year the ones we have
delayed because they are going to throw us out and
that if they kick us out we can't be part of the
section because to be of the section
officially to be a board no
collaborator but to start the
project for the occupation of space
You must have become a member and enter
start with the dimensions Then we
we spent a season not like with a de
Our fellow Boel experts
statutes and legislation entertaining and
back to paragraph four I don't know
what not as lengthening the time no
because everything already looked very bad. No
It already looked like they were going to
keep climbing no and what and what until
that we gave not that IB find the
manner
and but we didn't want to waste time
to be able to publish a document of
advance directives of maximums no eh
quite confrontational with the services
em as Well a tool that
we had been working as if to
trying to balance the power not between
people who interact with
services in times of risk
of hard psychiatrization
no and and we had or rather we needed like
a little more time to finish the
action to pay for it and be able to get it out and
try to publish it with the seal of the
in no because we thought that was going to
have a greater chance of arriving more
people and all that there were no then some
plans to set up online workshops
public to be able to work specifically
on how to use it and how to do it in
your life and also use it as the
platform for that not thinking about
that had how to get that status of
Well, I don't know how about the validity, not something
so and well The thing is that by lengthening
all this not with the emails and back
of of of discussing the statutes
Well, nothing happened that
that it's not like it was going worse than it was going
worse and and and nothing is already there, that is, it arrived
that period of paying the installments to the
people who didn't pay and they kicked us out
effectively as we paid it
they threw
em and well say maybe also not thea
that eh when we were working on the
advance directives document
priori not as if there was freedom of that
each section could work on the
content I would like
eh But well also say that the
advance directives were blocked
by the State Board and by all the
provincial wills document
in advance that we will now pass on to you that
Now we explain it perhaps a little bit
more this no But as it was also eh
of everything that was happening on the part of
from this of controlling our
behavior there was also a blockage
unanimous to the clear fair wills
It happened a little at a time, we didn't
They kicked out the people who didn't pay
quota reported that the document did not
They were going to publish it, not like you said, chaso.
No, not only because of the board but also because of us
They told us they never told us
directly the provincial ones but we
They said that all the communities
autonomous communities had blocked the
document So having already been given
all this was not the decision that the
We didn't have people who could follow us.
conversations about whether it made sense
people who had not been followed or not
follow not as Rights section
Humans occupying that space and a little bit
The conclusion was no and we took the
decision as if to find him exhausted of
It has been clearly demonstrated how far it could go
get there and how far Not from that place
not as we decided to resign en bloc. Well
that in April 2023 no, I don't know if that's not
like you're hitting there because
then what we decided was also
set up this page called ex
human rights section of the en
As you can see the document hanging there
free download not of the wills
in advance, clarifying there that it is not the case that the
in seared to
publish it and explain it a little bit very
briefly much more briefly than here
eh the things that have happened to
get there no
in
Yes yes then that is there too
You can find it in the link here
written not the letter to the people
partners that we asked for, we also did not do one
petition to when we resign and when to
In the end we did not leave the space eh that no
eh that we write like a letter for
that all social people
could read and put it in the as
in a moment it will come out in a way like the heel
panel yes an online board in which
They put the news on as a kind of
newsletter or something like that and I don't either
They wanted to do it then because it is
also posted on the website and is
the advance directive document
downloadable also that is for
Access it for free and openly
Of course, as you can see, like all the inos
If people get an idea, it's not like that
in this type of organizations no
allow people to communicate with each other
she spontaneously has control
of the data And also surely the
legislation in favor of doing so and
all that no but the fact is that as
section we could not communicate with the
rest of the members unless
the State Board agreed to the
administrative person who does those
tasks send the email no then
We ask not only what you are saying
not even though when we already admitted
send the explanatory letter as to why
we did it but we also asked for one
extraordinary meeting, no, with which
all members were summoned
to have the conversation not of If the
Whether the members wanted it or not, let's leave it
from doing what we were doing
also for reaching the end by
listen to people because maybe yes
They wanted me to let us want not to
that we stop doing what we were doing
doing but as if to get to the
end not for a bit like As
clarify until the end what are the
positions of the people grouped together
around that
association not that on the other hand
identity-wise it occupies the place not as
on the left the place of formation
not like we wanted to reveal what
until the end and of course none of that happened
because we had no access
No, although we do send a lot of
emails with the contacts that do
we had to tell as many people as possible
of possible people and groups that
this that this was happening and that
there was
happened then
conclusion What do you conclude yaso
conclusion Well then, that is to say that part of
what we were saying no and part of
what we have said at the beginning as that
yes I think no that I think that this
We share it with the two of us who have the
feeling that it is a very exhausted path
no eh Like part of this No apart
of many other things not like this
experience that gives a lot of account
of precisely that which the services
mental health problems are not reformable
in the sense that of course our
proposal is more to give them up and
invent other ways of doing things but
Of course it has become very clear Not everything
that everything that happens to the body is optimism
the hierarchies the hermeticism that then
Of course, there is also another thing that
It has happened here too in this
experience that perhaps also me
I would like to name that within the
same section there have been differences in
the level of disobedience they have had
people or we have had people
that we were not linked to any
institution or any service and those that
Yes, they weren't they. I mean, I think
that the mere belonging to a
institution Well, of course already
corrupts in some way or something like that
then of course that's why our
proposal is more to have, not more to not count
with mental health services and
invent other ways of doing or
something like that I don't know what you were into
in the same no I didn't want to say like nothing
more like I was looking Ah and I was thinking
Well, they are just a few minutes and
had understood had not understood him
Enrique, we had until the
5 left just 10 s That's right no Then
I don't know if you are used to the possibility
that people who are equally
listening or you want to ask something
Well, we would have this little bit.
a while
No, it seems that no one
question is that it is a little scary
listen eh maybe if it is that we have
there you go and then suddenly you say okay
Same Yes because no because I think that
There are many constructions, many
expectation not of this as of that
reformable not as of the Reformation not as
a lot of belief, a lot of energy
not put in what structures so
move or in which places they say
some things are not done as I believe
what to check
or listen to No checks that
It's not like that, I don't know, I don't know how it is for each
which you know like that also even me
I would like to hear some of that no
that it may not be today but Listen
As you have heard, it is supposed to know
each one like a story like this or if you already
they know
you know hello hello hello chaso hello what
Nice to hear from you
eh, it's that of course I have a state
egg of questions
Of course what happens is that I thought
Well if now I start asking how
everything I have
heard has left me a little
stop no I mean there are things that I already know but
I keep thinking all the time
how comfortable it is not to see
and and How discomfort feels and
then I thought that we have to link
What Lidia and I are going to talk about is
It has a lot to do with what you have
spoken to you perhaps not with examples
so
concrete
but as very similar no In fact I have
been taking notes of everything that
you have said on top of my cheat sheet what
What do I have to say? So it could be
a bit disastrous but it has made me
very funny and now when Lidia comes in
Well, I guess that's what it is
we will talk
the one phrase that you have said that
We have highlighted it a lot in the
It's for your good, it's for the good of, it's for
your good is for the sake of adherence
I don't know what it's like and how we are
We have worked on a super presentation like this
cool that it seems we are not going to put
Well, we are going to put a sheet of paper.
that we haven't worked hard on it, but and
on that sheet that is very
important the phrase the only phrase that
It is written It is for your own good and they have
resonated many things that
you have
Having said that, what I liked the most is
repair disobedience cheating strategy
questioning but then also rejecting
impunity for those good practices that exist
everywhere and then no
you will find it nowhere no matter how much you
you search and it already pisses me off
expression good practices
and I have also been left with one
word you said: descole
gia I've been left with that a lot because
I have tried this year but they have
given with the pair of
noses it may be for the moment but but
It has caught my attention that
people so different in different
points we are trying to start then
These processes with greater or lesser success and
and I have also reasoned a lot with her
phrase of a slap in the face because I think that
that we are going to talk Lidia and I have to
see a little with that not that that how how
we feel from the fact of
belong to an institution or to
be part of an institution And how
we live how we are living it.
that neither being critical no no no
lives
Well then I didn't want to occupy either
many minutes because then it's like
that we already entered and wanted
start our intervention by talking about
what you had talked about so
it was a bit a bit like that
but the thing about belonging corrupts
I also like it
point I agree
let's see what we do with that now
and I wanted to thank you because it was
You have made it clear what we are going to do
speak and yes, it seems to me or
I feel I have legitimacy
total of talking about what we have to do now
while what is alive in the body is worth or
because we do
we present directly and we work
I do not work within services
of the mental health services work
within a first cousin service
of course the social services one eh
but I'm not going to express myself from there
position comes as a person who has
Well, it has been felt and is felt
violated not by these
services then Beyond of
I think we are going to be given concrete examples
live
maybe I thought I was left behind
especially with what Olaya said about that
psychiatry is the problem
and so what has come to me
phenomenal for making the presentation that
Let's talk about counter-expertise
because for some, the problem is not
psychiatry but it is the expertise
the status of expertise so then
nothing but thank you very much
thanks Well we were Like that
it was you and me all the time
chatting on WhatsApp also
the things we had in common with
that they were explaining ichaso and
Yolay also from ignorance
but the little surprise
no anyway and it was there all the time
thinking about this cool presentation and
If that is going to eliminate people
or or I don't know what you want to do with that
we present and then we decide or what if
we put the
we put you have the microphone
removed Thanks sisca man and I was here
talking but well it's not the first time
that I speak and I don't know either
listen Exactly
and I was thinking that maybe
olaya eh isaso wanted to comment on something
Okay, so I've gotten into it.
end and it seems that we have thrown
starting and we had the presentation
that
Enri, you're going to put it on, you're going to take care of it.
or how do we also see the thing about the
presentation and I'll put it now
I share if I was going a little for that thing of
that everything is very visual
not everything very
visual well enr I don't know if
you wanted what
Cool, tell me Lidia whenever you want.
change and that's it, the only thing that is worth it
better clear full screen good gives
Just because we are seen like this doesn't make any difference
Okay, that's fine.
Okay I'm sharing I don't know
exactly how you see it
perfect
thanks thanks to you take advantage
Thanks No actually I wanted to start
Thanking Enrique for this space
where we are going to try to think together and
It is a pleasure to feel heard by
no matter how many people resonate with it
same no and we have been talking a lot
these days about what we were going to
talk about what we were going to think about how we did it
we wanted to say that's why this is here
presentation made like that and we decided
that we preferred to present
present ourselves as critical learners
learners of open dialogues because
we have met Learning to
use dialogues
open
left as a little stopped no I mean there is
things I already know but not all of it
I thought for a long time how comfortable it is not to see
and and How discomfort feels and
then I thought that we have to link
What Lidia and I are going to talk about is
It has a lot to do with what you have
spoken to you perhaps not with examples
so
concrete
but as very similar no In fact I have
been taking notes of everything that
You have said about me what
I have to say So it could be a
a little disastrous but it has made me a lot
grace and now when Lidia enters
Well, I guess that's what it is
we will talk
the one phrase that you have said that
We have highlighted it a lot in the
It's for your good, it's for the good of, it's for
your good is for the sake of adherence
I don't know what it's like and how we are
We have worked on a super presentation like this
cool that it seems we are not going to put
Well, we are going to put a sheet of paper.
that we haven't worked on it much, but and in
that leaf that is very important, eh?
sentence the only sentence that is written It is
for your own good and they have resonated with me a lot
things you have said what it is
What I liked the most was repairing
disobedience cheating strategy
questioning but then also rejecting
impunity
those good practices that exist everywhere
sides and then you can't find them
nowhere no matter how much you search and that
The expression "good" already pisses me off
practices already piss me off and I have also
left with a word that you have said
of
membership I have been left with that for a long time
because I have tried this year but
They have given me the pair of
noses that I'm not going to be able to be
moment but but the call has come to me
attention not that people are so different
different points we are trying
start these processes with greater or
less success and has also reasoned with me
I really like ichaso's phrase because I think
What Lidia and I are going to talk about
It has a little to do with that, no matter what
how how we feel from from the
fact of belonging to an institution or
be part of an institution AND
as
we live how we are living it.
that neither being critical no no no
lives
Well then I didn't want to occupy either
many minutes because then it's like
that we already entered and wanted
start our intervention by talking about
what you had talked about so
it was a bit a bit like that
but the thing about belonging corrupts
I also like it
I'm aiming
okay let's see what we do with that now
Hey, I wanted to thank you because we
You have made it clear what we are going to do
talk and yes that sisc seems to me or
I feel I have legitimacy
total of talking about what we have to do now
while what is alive in the body is worth or
because we do
we present directly and we work
I do not work within services
of mental health services work
within a first cousin service
of course social services eh
but I'm not going to announce myself from there
position comes as a person who has
eh Well it has been felt and is felt
violated not by these services
then Beyond examples
concrete I think we are going to live
Maybe I thought I was left behind
especially with what Olaya said about that
psychiatry is the problem and what
Well, that's what came to me
phenomenal for making the presentation that
Let's talk about counter-expertise
because for some the problem is not the
psychiatry but it is the expertise that
status of expertise so then
nothing that many
thank you
Well we were Like we were you and
I was talking all the time on the
WhatsApp is also one of the things that
we had in common with what they were
explaining ichaso and
Yolay also from ignorance
but the little surprise
no anyway and it was there all the time
thinking about our cool presentation
and if that is going to eliminate the las
people or or I don't know what you want to do with
That's what we introduced ourselves to and then we decided
or what if we put the
we put you have the microphone
removed Thanks cisca man and I was here
talking but well it's not the first time
that I speak and I don't know either
listen Exactly
and I was thinking that maybe
olaya eh isaso wanted to comment on something
Okay, so I've gotten into it.
end and it seems that we have thrown
starting and we had the presentation
that
Enri, you're going to put it on, you're going to take care of it.
or how do we also see the thing about the
presentation
and I put it now I share if I went a
little for that thing of being very
visual all
not all very visual
Well Enri, I don't know, I don't know if
you wanted what Cool tell me Lidia when
You want me to change and that's it, that's fine.
only one that maybe clear screen
complete well it doesn't matter No because that's how it is
He sees us, it doesn't matter. Well, that's fine, that's how it is.
good perfect okay I'm sharing No
I know exactly how you see it
perfect thanks it's fine it's thanks
I take this opportunity to say it to you
thanks thanks no In fact I wanted
start by thanking Enrique for this
space not where we are going to try to think
together and where it is a pleasure that
feel heard by more people
that the same thing resonates with them, right?
and we've been talking a lot these days
about what we were going to talk about
that we were going to think as we wanted
to say that's why this presentation is like this
made and we decided
that that
we preferred to present ourselves as apprentices
critical apprentices of open dialogues
because we have met Learning to
Use open dialogues in Health
Mental
and I think we are both quite
criticisms maybe we are Well yes as
critical thinking from different
angles So we like to introduce ourselves
as apprentices and we are Lidia Alosa
and María Francisca Mory we are going to talk about
the counter-expertise
and maybe maybe we'll go out too
little of psychiatry itself we are not going to
extrapolate it as Lidia has said
what is expertise like that
used for
that we say it is like an Alo no de de
influence of violence and power
and I don't know about power relations, Lidia
Do you want to explain the title a little bit?
see the title well Rayo against
expertise in the end has to do with why
I got involved at one time thinking about
in the counterculture movement no
and well it seems that it is true that
in academic circles This is like
thought somehow about the counter
expertise And such But I didn't have as
much interest in stopping at the roll
of the concept and all this does not affect me
It seems to be just what is somehow
way we want to go up no
So in the end it is
Okay
in front of another position in front of the
These vertical monologues that go
circulating not in these knowledges is
They are monologues, there is no dialogue.
there is dialogue
and well it is like that as long as it is understood
that there is a clinical problem at one point
eh layman It is true that also the
word is
theorized within anthropology and in
some
disciplines but I wanted to use it
Simply because it seems to me
that he is dead So these
knowledge is dead at least it is
dying in the sense that if there is already
questioning because eh they already have
possibility of dying anyway I am very
optimistic and but I also think so
because I think that
This universe is not psychiatry, well
the device Yes in
general is a
Underworld then Well we are here
Well, a little to alter how I eat
altered person Well we are here no yes
It is a little to alter the knowledge and
destabilize or at least to
try it
And what else to talk about the title for me?
Something we were talking about, eh sisca, is that
I usually think about it when I go to
someone and I talk about this topic H about
the good subject of the so-called Health
Mental not that I always have in Like so
as if he were looking at me out of the corner of his eye in Gamma
mutual support group I was in
and and I'm always thinking about
in my colleagues always or beyond
of
that I have too many hours a day
in a paid job
and I don't lose sight of it and I don't usually
position myself as
professional of course I'm ashamed
eh belong to many services no and
and having to go through it many times
for that clo that I don't know if it really is
I'll pass, but well, here we go.
bothering no So in the end there are three
points of which we want
to speak one is like like that that that
We have there now put not the thing of
vindicate otherness with great
imposture Not that of feeling
impostors or intruders that it is okay that
It's phenomenal. So it would be a good one.
indicator does not mean it is imposture
What Yes in fact is like the word that
What else calls here is not the word
imposture because we were talking
many times
of the position you have to assume
not one when you are in the system
you observe according to what kind of things you are
How to survive How to survive
system being part of the system not a
little of what the companions have started
How to position yourself
there and I remember that all the times that
We have been talking about it since it came out
the word cheat a lot
no and yes and what can be done from
inside from outside if from inside it is
better if you have to go out from outside
eh And how how we lived all that no
how How to inhabit all that because when
In the end, we did coincide all the time.
in
which is like a feeling of
exhaustion No, I don't know if it's shared
for all the people who
we tried to see some
change feeling that you are
fighting that when it seems that for a
side eh you get to move forward in
something on the other side
suddenly you find yourself with Well with
another wall and how that makes you have
to be all the time
browsing and receiving from all
sides and I remember that when we were
talking a little about this part of the
imposture yes I remember that we were
reflecting on
that you get from some
way to avoid some type of violence
eh but then you open another's door
type of social institution and you
you find institutions equally
violent institutions that
supposedly they have been created for
protect no Or what we were talking about no
It's for your own good that we love it no
But if we agree on something when
we were talking when we were
reflecting on this with
was that this comes out of psychiatry or
whether the topic of Mental Health
Now it turns out that it is biopsychosocial and
It's everywhere and what we
we have realized is that they are created
many, many systems
many
structures for our good so that
let us be well and so that we are taken care of
and we are
protected and that these same structures
They are the ones who continue to violate one another and
again to the same people no and and
and well that is what generates the
short circuit not the one I wish
only be in psychiatry
no but this is getting like
expanding to what are the
structures and institutions to all
the levels and what we found in
common was the expertise not that the
place yourself at a higher point of con
This is justified and supported by a lot of people
of things
Eh, well that's what they say.
Of course it puts you in a position of
to be able to decide to have the universal truth
in your power and therefore stop
listen stop listening to others
no I mean no it doesn't matter it's not valid
that you say and we stop a lot to
think about how we lived it
These situations do not reflect how we felt
the in the body
And yes, I do remember that feeling
that I identified a lot is the la
feeling that it never ends, that it never ends
it never ends that it seems that a thing
It seems to be going a little better but then
you open another door and find again
violence does not Lidia
Yes, well I thought that for our
Well, that is to say that we dissidents know
that these are all devices
social control finally no further
of the language used and how it is
Oh
selling I usually live in
my job with Estel de
variable indicators
and I thought not as eh as a person
psychiatric too eh How is my body
managed not managed by the
administration
eh And in the end eh well well that's not what
import those indicators, those variables
eh adherence to treatment
awareness of
disease those techniques those methods eh
the
interpretations of the
planning eh
the diagnosis of course Not the
diagnosis as a gateway to that
rite of passage and
in which it is very difficult, very screwed up
to be able to be able to you
It's very difficult to get out, so what?
It matters because the word matters
the word of the person usually matters
expert who is the one who commands and is
It is the status, it is the social position, not
in the end in all this that we thought
about the archetype of the expert. Well
the expert the archetype of the expert and the
archetype of the madman that we are going to see
also with an example
and my friend cirion has worked hard here
tarot card that we were missing which is the
archetype of the expert then said like that
So it's very simple that he lives
expert And what does it contemplate then?
smoke smoke in which he thinks and smoke in the
that
sells and a great expert cannot
Nor survive without its
fart sniffers or basically this would be
a summary of the expert archetype that
In popular culture I think it is
understand very well with this image no
So then it is for your own good.
always what is there behind and that
as we live it in our
bodies because we talked and said that
I'm starting to think that this is
Basically here it's like the culture of
rape sounds a lot like that to me
that to rape culture
[Music]
It's not the psychiatric person's fault
not of the person violated by the
person who lives in the state
treatment are treatments
perforative that are at the oral level
and the injections
and the voices of the experts
And well, in the end, all that is
Not all that dissent comes out
that which can survive and that which
does well within the system is that
person who gets a job
paid which is a mortgage That has a
family one
reputation of his children The dog and the
sure
em of death or whatever, well there
all good but if you leave if you are a
foreign body, and when I say
strange I'm talking about what I want And about
it
crep, well there we go having no
and Maybe the
problem and to
final Well it's always that thing that
have
some people when in some
spaces where we don't come out of the closet
but we do not say openly that
we are psychiatric because if not
eh the other part is that it seems that
we have to show that we are people
with the
[Music]
that you can feel
safe and was
thinking that now Enri has passed us by
arcane that is the arcane we love no
I know if we can see it again is that
when we were talking about this arcane
that everything is so well thought out that
let us all be equal, let us all think
We all dress the same, we all dress the same
let's all work, let's all do the same
just because
we stopped being as they want us to be
let us be then they label us and
we enter the circuit of violence and
this also this also happens when
you are working and and at work
disagrees no
or we have to go back quickly to
balance and keep yourself quiet
because if not, they quickly leave
Labels emerge that say good is not good
he is not feeling very well indeed
problems not how to invalidate the
dissent by system and when
we were talking about the arcane
What does Lidia Bueno tell me and what color is it?
we put in the background no and I told him
Well, I think we have to put
blue background and no because not not blue
sky but blue because I remember that
when I was in the race
finishing psychology and already starting to
to raise the professional practice among some
How many colleagues were thinking about
see how they would make the cards
professionals and such because before not
there were so many social networks there were more
cards and I remember a friend who
He told me no no no no on the card it has
that there is the color blue blue because the
heat the color blue means
elegance, confidence and
Seriously then of course I told him
aldia, well, nothing, that is, the expert has
that has to have blue around there
somewhere No because if not it doesn't inspire
trust It is supposed to be to what extent
everything down to every little detail is
is organized around these languages
No, well, at the end of the performance
graph basically summarizes that the
The archetype of the expert is someone who is dedicated
to pontificate
basically it is who sets himself up as that
you know it and in the end
and it is tremendous because that is to say the
tentacles that it reaches is that it creates
all an army no
of propagation and consumption of
marketing pitch And I am
thinking about that the typical advertisement of
toothpaste that says it like it is
scientifically proven because it is already
you know if it is there, of course you are going to
answer something that is scientifically
proven Not that which has evidence that
that
although it is like words
keys not in which if I say this I go
suddenly credibility Note that
I was thinking about the skunk, it is an animal that
expels its fetid odors when it feels
threatened and we talked about that too
sisca because many
times if we
retract
behind that is that that need That that
if we have that need and I was
remembering Mark
Ana was a gentleman, a Spanish poet
to dam up the republic that died ago
few years
and he was one of the people who fulfilled the most
condemnation in Franco's regime no
and I remember once
listening to it a few years before
died that he said that the most the most
It was complicated to speak in a language
simple and and no longer so that you could
understand all people were like that
The most annoying thing is not because in the end
come on
em is that it is very difficult and and and there eh
I think how difficult it is too
for me when I think about what I want
learn how to make reading easy no O
be how How can we talk or or that
also a certain obsession that we can
have some that are not so much
[Music]
eh being able to speak many languages ​​or being able to
communicate in the best way but
let us be understood as we want
that we are understood and how to do it in
a language like very
simple in short let's leave the term no
with this expert or that is
It is basically the Incarnation not of the
positivist fundamentalism is the author
of the name
is the authorship
No, he wasn't thinking about what he was thinking about.
diagnosis I think in the name not
I'm going to get tangled up better, it's not one of the
things I like to get tangled up with the most
Regarding the name issue, you already know that Me
I dedicated the whole theme of my family
ghosts of origin to talk about the
names and
Come on no but okay yes I say again
Diagnosis is the gateway to
a Rite to a rite of passage and and it can
condemn everyone to social ostracism
that there is and is a word that can
dehumanize because it is not used as
a label
in that no
has is
It's not like I don't know right now but I want to
I think there is a certain strategy
behind I don't know I don't know if right now I
I'm explaining well but I think that
is part of everything, of everything
device the device does not exist without
the diagnosis of the
DSM yes And as the diagnosis is also
used in entities outside of psychiatry
also as to justify according to what
type of decisions Not now comes to me
comes to mind one of the
last decisions I had to make and
that and that somehow I am
trying to compensate by cheating
How could it be otherwise?
Like the fact that someone someone
had given a diagnosis or two to a
specific person
and
In addition to a good way he had had him
given two diagnoses to a person
concrete And that took away the right to
access a service that at that time
maybe it could go well for him because he was in
a situation of social vulnerability
quite important in terms of a a
housing and the fact of having two
labels
diagnostics made it somehow
way it would already be taken for granted that
They would be people with problems
coexistence with which they would generate
would generate difficulties and that therefore
so much so that the option had to be denied to the
access to a service that
needed and that and all that is
embodied in two little words, that is, in one
diagnostic label no And also
I remember that
eh this particular person who has
that diagnostic label
eh And he is currently living in
a service in which I work and that
It is a service in which no one can
we let these labels in
and we have been living together for quite a while now
time with this person without their
tags only with the person with
with her it is already
and I remember the look of surprise on my face
my colleagues put when they were not even
How good is the exclusion from a service?
to this person because it was assumed
violence and it had been assigned to him
a diagnosis then you are not
people who are working with me
and that they had lived with each other for more than a month
They couldn't get along with this person.
relate the diagnosis with the
person they were living with or
they did not see or understand the label
diagnostic and And of course what
The least they understood was the presupposition
violence not because when you already had more
of a month living day to day with a
person and going through collapses and going through
complex situations because I was
suffering Well, he has a backpack
quite heavy one that we are now going to
talk about memory and history
that is so invisible with the
diagnosis no but well this person
has a very heavy backpack has to
sometimes collapses and that's why and that's why
needs a little bit is there with
We don't, but in more than a month
we hadn't been able to identify anything
of what was argued to prohibit it
access to
service was simply two o'clock
labels that justified everything no and
And how do you also stay as as
person that you see and you are
deconstructing
that you are deconstructing yourself and that and that
that you have to live with that because
In the end that is the system and you will be able to
make your little pebble but not
you can load the whole wall and the
impotence not good in the asylum
It's that everything turns around and I say
mental asylum deliberately because
that of acute units and all the
words that have been put on them not for
I would be thinking about bleaching
It is not the word Maybe, perhaps, either.
adequate no But
Well, I don't know if I
[Music]
I explain, I don't know to what extent
in the people we are
psychiatric we have like a
speech
thought about whether in what way or that is
our way of embodying that can be
not to embody violence at best
responds more to a certain self-defense no I
He's thinking and
also not because because it is always
like that speech not that we are
violent people are rarely talked about
that we are violated but it is spoken about
much of that we can be violent no and
And I've been thinking about it for a few days now.
That thing about self-defense, no. So that's what
what is that or what is the story
What is the narrative that we can
to do from pride as now
then it's the turn of the compas of the
I'm proud of Madrid. Well, I don't know, I don't know.
Yes, yes, they will get hooked if they have planned
talk a little about this
but but it doesn't matter it's that O is
I mean it doesn't matter if you talk about it
percentage not of the percentage that already
It is known that the same proportion of
violent people would have it among
psychiatric people and those who are
They are not diagnosed in the movement
Well no, I don't really know what
What if we really have to prove it?
something not I mean I think we don't have too much
No
with with the
exercise and with the claim of memory
from our own history
history and and now speaking about this
the memory not of the archetype of madness
and I thought And it is that in the letter too
of the tarot happens not the archetype of the
madness is being
ungovernable equally and is a being that
It is always moving and is a
archetype in which well the truth is not
the authentic is always present and how
eh when people wear a white coat
usually that is quite far away, isn't it?
That is to say, the opposite of what usually happens
These are the therapies that I
They are more reminiscent of conversion therapies
Well they do it with trans people and
have also done so with other people
other dissidents do not
and in that of thinking what archetype
from the sisca madness these days I
I was talking about talking about something that these
months ago I have been left with each
more and more
Of course it has to do with emancipation
of many
environments okay or whatever
It is true that I am the archetype of the
I want the madness that I have to be
eh something that is
emancipated from everything that is not safe
and that in the end it is a Liberation not
because when you are in environments that
are that are not safe in which you do not
you feel accompanied or supported nor do you think
that you do not know
Listen, it's much easier, huh?
have a bad time, not have a bad time, I mean have a bad time
bad because it is
You may suffer a lot, it may hurt you
extremely and then you can also
to embody not with those forms less
usual ones that are less well regarded
for the sake of it, not for the sake of it, for the sake of them
progressive professionals I want to say this
It's something that I've always been doing
finding not like the good ones
teachers
good It is true that they usually show that
a certain sensitivity to the person who
He is having a very bad time. Not the person.
that that is embodying a very pain
extreme but maintaining the
narrative of the
madness is not accepted and is not
ASSUME no eh in the end it is it is if it is that it is
other unusual experiences are
other dissidents are others
craziness
I think it's like like like a
radical manifestation of certain
fractures but also as a
totally extreme body experience
no and you can't
allow seems like it can't be done
allow not So that was the turns
not like emancipating yourself from those
environments
and that the voices are awake no
that we defend from our
life stories from oral tradition
also No, the truth is that I have
learned a lot with my friends who
that
They write but as I always have that
a certain need for that, that, not that
listen to me, not that I don't want to
write an article to position myself
and achieve a certain status so that I can be
Listen, but I would like it right in
this
moment we will try to provide a minimum
attention not that I give it to you
legitimacy that I understand that
we can have to incarnate many times
Madness is not saying that when I speak
from the awake voice I'm thinking about
that we have to name ourselves is worth it
we must conquer that space
of the name and it seems to me that it is
eh the only way out you know of the
This authority that unnames us
not really and it is the name of the
diagnosis is the suit is a suit
definitive in the
body no I think you've gone too far eh or
we are still on the subject of the
memory
excuse me no because we were talking
with yes about this not about ours
stories
and and we still
we have a little bit left, no, because or
be me here was like the moment that
I wanted to take advantage of what has
meaning to be in a Gan for me
the learning experience and
emancipation or at least
Hey
I'm not saying it's total, far from it.
but
that I believe that in mutual support we can
be the key within the movement of the
pride or continue is that it can be
It is difficult, it is difficult not to keep many
sometimes relationships
but but I think to continue a little there and
and also yes, just one little thing that
that yoeng regarding this thing of the gam
of the movement not in all
social movements there is an elite
I mean the elite that speaks and I
Here I want to recognize myself because I
I feel like a privileged person who
can talk and I think about all the
people I know who
is a prisoner of psychiatric drugs
dam in the
devices caught in your family
Okay, I think about those people, how hard it is
No, what's up with the Gs?
sisca What
It happens G, it happens that, well, like with everything that
is
war is war
because I have also been lucky enough to
to belong to a mutual aid group
at a very critical moment in my life
and I didn't even know they existed but since the
At first I knew I had to
connect with people who had passed away
for the same reason as me or something very similar
And I didn't find any no
And well, and in the end you create them yourself.
spaces and what happens with the gam is
which seems to be a piece of
Market now T well and I'm living it
very bad because the mutual aid groups
They are spaces where it is assumed that there is no
There must be a professional figure who
There must only be people who
They share a
situation and that they are there from the
horizontality
to be shared to give veracity
to those silenced stories and to
find those connection points that
they are so healthy
no and and of
suddenly and suddenly I realize
Well, now the new fashion is that
in a mutual support group you have to
there is a
professional by our
well and it is a struggle Well
[Music]
Well I don't know what to call it because
In the end I can maintain what the range is
the one I belong to so that it does not enter
no professional but of course how it is
I get it because I get it with my
little label
with my little degree it's worth it because if I didn't have
my little title label I couldn't
keep that space safe Although I
later in that mutual aid group no
I have no title in that group of
mutual help I am a sister in mourning and no
I am nothing more But it is the way I have
found to prevent them from entering
professionals and
And yes, now I connect a little with what
what the previous colleagues have said
not from the previous presentation or from the
previous talk that sometimes you have to
there is no other option but to unlink and
I have seen myself reflected there in that
I have had to disassociate myself from some
entities
and in which games were distributed with
professionals
there for our
no, just in case something happens and we
destabilize by distorting and that and that
I was living it as if it were a
appropriation of our stories as
one like a robbery or rather like I have few
spaces that are mine or that are mine
They are our own and neither do you like it
well, I mean you have to give it to me too
usurp you don't have to be there either
listening and preventing it from happening
generate the dynamics that are generated
when there is no one listening And she
He experienced it with surprise and anger. But
But well, the truth is that this
paternalism is there
and and and I wouldn't say it's paternalism
but I would say that they already appropriate
our experiences to create
a business area in which
supports with with with with this logo not of
It is for your own good, it is for you to move on.
Grief is better so that it does not become chronic
Because of course if there is no professional
Chronicles the Grief This is this is
It is very clear that the duel becomes chronic if and
There is no professional there who does it though
just listen it doesn't matter No and
we were a little bit with that not that of
somehow we keep eliminating
stories we follow
signaling and we continue with the
power relations because not even
a space where I can
supposedly share with
people who are in the same situation
that I my
history because there has to be someone
listening and that brings me a little to what
that we have talked about that it has been
created a kind of language Alo
the skunk does not know what there may be
danger if we are not controlled in some way
way or if not we know and I remember one
anecdote eh that the first times that
I was doing the support groups
mutual that here where I live was like
everything very I mean there was no it wasn't like very
transgressor and such a memory that several
professional people from different backgrounds
areas asked me to be present
for
learn and I said wow, we are in terrible shape
Because that means they don't listen.
because if you wanted to learn you would listen
to the people who talk to you and who
They tell you their
stories because what happens in a game
That's simply what they are told
stories and they are heard No Then it is
like he was saying what are you doing but I don't know
it's like a short circuit
and well and there we are in the business
of well-being the business It's for your own good
sisca and and of course it came to me too
I also dealt with the issue of
discontinuation of the drugs
It's also amazing, or rather because, or rather
which is fair from the stories No
from what is being told
and by psychiatric people who have
had that experience not of
discontinuation and suddenly there is also
number of super expert professionals
I say quantity there are not many I wish
there would be more the story is Who do you
you direct you are directing your
colleagues Or you are addressing the
society as an expert Who are you addressing?
no and And that's what it generates for me
a little bit of discomfort or the topic of
Human Rights No, well, it's that yes. Or
be of course not that in this
It is good that we talk about rights in the world
Humans but Who are you addressing?
to talk to him about human rights, that is
Well, I don't know if it would be nice if it were
they will hear their own voices with that no
I think and of course right here Enri you can now
come on, let's go
[Music]
finishing Yes I think so well no
I know it seems to me that with what they have given us
counted
Hello, I don't know, I don't know, the truth is
that I am something that I do not know
respond or habitually many times
that no and and some other time I say Well
Come on. Well, yes, let's continue with the
trap not one of those we raise our voices inside
of the institutions that are serving us
silencing Because in the
institutions that are at the end for the
control no further than that they are erected
another way and
then we also wonder why we
we have presented as apprentices in
open dialogues
Hey
the practice of open dialogues
guarantees radical respect for madness
No
eh that's a question that was launched in
some
moment I would really like to resume
with the people who were there
present the question at what time
they are not. So that's what it can be.
be
[Music]
H it seems to me that it is, look, I had
as a certain guarantee in which dialogues
open worked well when
looked like a
gam
yeah it was like yeah like something like
It looks like a gam is going well because the only
manner
Validating is really listening.
no but of
truth listening to it
all Yes and also that is the practice
of consent
I don't want to talk because I don't want to.
talk
and it's not that you need help
because you think I need it I have the
need to be helped is
that not wanting to change does not want the other
person
Yes yes Well in the end we also had
the question with what language we
we dare
Well, hopefully we can uncancel.
all that language of madness
can uncancel
all
dissimilate not give
psychoeducate to decolonize ourselves from all that
imperative not sane and hopefully also
practice reading
easy
m and there we were with that of With what
We fantasize also not because for
To change your imagination, you have to fantasize and
you have to be delirious
and what do you fantasize about?
sisca I fantasize
I fantasize a lot that we love each time
I fantasize more about them recovering
stories are recovered contexts are
eliminate
diagnoses and that the gowns do not have
So much
power that they cannot do to me
silence so they can't
invalidate and find more spaces
listening in all areas because
in the workplace also when there is
a problem I don't know
Now one comes to me, it takes everything to the
who is living in the present moment
no and and it comes to me now like the the
most critical moments that I have lived through
the feeling of not being heard and not
be understood by the person I have
in front is one of the most violent that
I have
never had no
And yes, I did start studying the
open dialogues precisely because
I think they precisely give a space to
the dialogues to listen to listen
of everything
And yes, I do remember that when
We were reflecting on this part
We said that open dialogues
They are a tool that allows the
listen but in the end what there is is
people who listen and who will depend
much of the person who uses that
tool how to use it with whom
eh Because it is in fact a tool
very pretty but if the person who uses it
the
USA simply as a technique for
for change a technique to obtain
I don't know, it depends a lot on what
What I fantasize is not a technique
I fantasize about people who
who want to be different and what and what
want to add on the other side and that
They fall less too and you who fall
except me, that is, it is clear that I dream of
the end of reputation
expert and above all with
that also with the aim that madness
and extreme discomfort is a language
violated and
raped I fantasize a lot about this
And well, before that, it's true that the same
we have eaten up a little bit of time
we have 10 minutes left but but yes that
I wanted to finish enri if you want put the
last slide in case anyone
wants to stay in touch
and well we had there I feel like reading
something that we had put as for
finish not and as continuing with the
question of What do we fantasize about and
say so as to stop giving answers
capitals think that the solutions are not
are
capitals move away from the one of the
sentence and the words that are
chew
definitive some wishes like that
Friday, stop the radio talk that
Let's stop serving fires and blowing
Hurricanes that shadows always
change shape and let's become like that again
the Earth is fertile and if it is not yet
You can keep thinking about how
say in the most subtle and elegant way
violent that the institution kills and
crazy people we do not give up and and no
we postpone
thank you
And thanks again enri for the for
be the Technological Institute of
because they are very technological, the truth is
thanks to
You liked the skunk in the end
Enrique, you were scared shitless.
eh It scares me more
Now I say it with the G of Athena in it
Heart, they are going to sell you everything in these
G yes we go
with the ammunition ready, I really say it
with all the love for the gel that is going to us
speak from the asylum magazine
politician the mental asylum Why us
we feel so so violated and what you have
expressed a place that should be for
be
protected and I say nothing because we are going to
to pass to English is a magazine is a
magazine is a non-explosive charge
They are bullets, they are words, it is true, it is what it is
what are you doing
damage Well, nothing, well, a
pleasure a pleasure true do I give way to
everything to everyone who wants to ask
We have time, please, yes, we have some.
minutes if anyone feels like it. Well
phenomenal because in the end we put the
questions a little to question
No, in case someone could leave them
doing
I would have also loved Yordi
ask us any questions not because
I just saw that I loved it
Yes, I have thought the same thing, I have thought the same thing.
the truth is that yes
Okay, okay, okay, okay.
we don't have to be either, I don't know, it is
Well, I ask you what
you want to give way to truth has been
something is left in the
inkwell Well, I do have to
say that I do, that is, it is true that
It's hard for me to stop. No, but
I can do it but I fantasize, I fantasize
also a lot with putting a theme of
music that I'm not going to put but just in case
If anyone wants it, I'll put it here.
as if it ends, not that I hear it
at home if you feel like it and it's also
that for me was inspiring eh for for
this topic
I don't put it here it's called theories
of another
World is paradise So a little bit
of pachanga metal and wonder for
finish thanks good recommendation
Of course
yes I put it for everyone question
enri Well I think that more or less the
duration corresponds to the time that
there is more or less
At least that's what I think you want.
I don't know if I ever sent it to you, Enri.
I think I've sent you others like this.
bit
more more snozz but I don't know if this one
I sent it to you at some point
If you feel like it, of course, man, I do.
Of course I do.
like it is softer than everything that
I was studying studying listening
last night more
softly
Okay, thank you very much. Yes, I'm going.
to read what he is saying
Enrique who is missing
It is true to all present and
absent also
and we continue and also and yes that
above all the graces that I have
feeling super wrapped up is worth as much as
enri as well
and this is h and saso were first they and
Now there's the crazy Madrid pride.
So we leave the best for him.
final that is not that the time continues
Being crazy pride Forgive Fatima you are
you and him too, thanks
Thanks Hi how are you I'm going to leave that
Speak Fatima first, she is the one who is
in crazy pride I am not in
crazy pride but I'll do it later
my presentation
for
worth to
see
Hello, Hello Fatima, thank you both, everyone.
Hello everyone. Well, hey, Enric.
Thank you so much for organizing all of this.
these days and for all the hard work
of organization that should have been and to me
The truth is that I am very excited and
It is an honor to be next to
groups like Mind freedom or the people
from ailum that I am also registered for
true in the magazine and I receive it every
good month every three months and nothing I am
Fatima, I am part of the pride collective
Crazy Madrid which is a collective of
psychiatric people that we carry out
activism in the city of Madrid
Well, and in the community of Madrid, I'm going
I'm going to give a talk.
presentation okay I don't know let's see if it is
I'm doing well. This is fine.
and
okay good
and I can be heard
true yes you can be heard and I see the la
presentation if needed I would give it to you
You send because it has already happened before
They ask me to do it so I can leave
in full screen if not necessary
I do it, okay, well, so what happens is
that to
See, okay, I do it like this, what happens is that
I don't see you but well, I don't see you either.
I try to do it like this, okay, well, I'm going to
talk about scarring in the
Spanish state and first of all, the good thing is
healing in the Spanish state for
start is based on what would be the
Mental Health system of everything that
It is the public system that is usually given
in hospitals in acute wards then
There are several resources that would be the
medium-stay plants that would be
an income of about six months more or
less and then after a long time there is
people who have been around for years and decades
entered into this type of resources and
that they have no way of knowing that
can get out or the way out is very
very difficult because as they do not exist for
start neither housing nor Centers where
to be able to join what would be a
life after a lifetime
institutionalized is almost impossible
that they come out and then there is also a part
which is the whole psychiatrization of what
which is also the private system of
health that is also working in the
Spanish state I don't know if the companions
I haven't been able to be there before and I don't know if
They will have talked something about the situation of
of the Mental Health system in Spain
But well, if I repeat whatever it is, I'll get it.
you say and I'm going to start by saying that it is
exactly the psychiatrization that is
the result of applying the model
biomedical that tries to impose the
hypothesis that madness and the
psychic suffering is an illness
mental and that said illness is and is
can be treated like any other
consequences of this model first
It would be for all the people that we are
that we have been or are psychiatric is
condemn us to a chronicity with some
medications often for life
and with diagnoses that place us
on a lower scale than what is known
I could say how good it is to take us away and
deprive us of rights and then on another
side what this model achieves is
individualize what the las would be
causes of the conditions On the one hand
of the living conditions or the
oppressions not. That is, for example, when
a person commits suicide due to an eviction
They say it's because something is wrong with him
brain when the reality is that what
what is obviously failing is this system and
well everything
this is the O that is what would be the
psychiatrization would be the whole process and
when we say a psychiatric person
from the moment you take
contact a doctor or a
psychiatrist or even before and everything
any type of psychological suffering
that you have or of madness that you have
understand as a disease that is
part of the brain that's why in the
crazy movement we say it is not a
chemical imbalance but is a
imbalance of power and Good from where
we come this son Vallejo nera that a
Well, you will already know him, a military doctor
and López Ibor Vallejo Nagera during the
Francoism did, or rather had a whole
theory about the red gene by which
the Marxists were
considered sick and Eh and I'm also going
to read here that they had temperaments
degenerative mediocre intelligences and
innately social personalities
revolutionary and well all this
Valle joner So it is true that later
He did not have a subsequent school.
thought but at the time it served its purpose
among other things to justify the
Baby theft to pathologize everything
what the dissidents were
both political and sexual etc.
Yes, well, sexual science would also be
politics and then López Ibor who was a
psychiatrist who also during the
regime but it was more of the lopus wing of
made them two were contrary I am
only giving a brushstroke on it
them and for everything that is history of
psychiatry I highly recommend the work
by Ricardo Campos Well, I'll leave it there and the
López Ibor was more, I mean, he was a person
very much of the Catholic Opus Dei, which is whose
work was based mainly on the
Biologicalism, which is a bit like that again
that mental illness is genetic
It is hereditary etc. etc. and
during his years and years as a psychiatrist, eh
performed electroshocks on dissidents
sexual and today there is a
clinic with his name that is also a
clinic that costs quite a bit of money in the
that one of the plants is the fifth
plant worth 500 a day worth for us
let's get an idea and to what its coming
like famous people here and such And then
It has other plants that cover it
either private insurance or it is done
privately And that clinic has or
It is located on a street that has
the name Lopez Ibor is not supposed to
That clinic is a reference of what
It should be psychiatry, let's go
what would be well-being but has in
That in that clinic they continue giving it
electroshocks and in that clinic it is still
tying people up actually have a
plant where people are taken
tied up
And well, this would be a bit of the story.
where psychiatry comes from in
Spain all this would be or rather would be
much more development is needed but
It seemed important to me to bring it here to
This is this talk because it seems to me
important to see where we come from and see
also like here the movement
antipsychiatric the truth that the
antipsychiatry movement could not
overdeveloping is true
that there are certain figures like Guillermo
Rendueles González hard Manuel desviat
who participated in what was the
psychiatric reform but that the reform
psychiatric was a bit of a change too
names by spaces because the people who
For decades he has been entering, for example,
That time in Pozuelos was of little use to him.
reform
psychiatric then I will talk about the
medical model so briefly I don't know I'm going
good time and the biomedical model
This is the picture that
which is a painting in which
explain the different editions of the
DSM Diagnostic and Analysis Manual
statistician since the first edition in
1952 which had 128 disorders until the
The last one is from 2013, which had 541
not that this is a good example of how
the American Psychiatric Association
has been generating and multiplying all
the diagnoses and has been monopolizing
increasingly the living conditions and
even the circumstances themselves
of life as it has gone
agnostics and taking advantage of the situation
that each disorder ultimately involves some
medication medications when sun then
when it comes down to it what the truth is
There are five psychiatric medications
principles that would be what they are
amphetamines that are usually given to
children with attention deficit disorders
attention and hyperactivity what would be
vaccines that are not anxiolytics, which
antidepressants eh then the branch of
mood stabilizers and I'm missing one
Oh of course antipsychotics and
neuroleptics no but let's go that those are
the five principles But all the
psychiatric people have given us
In fact we have tried most of them
psychiatric medications because
They try one then they try another one then
They try another one on you and there is no reality
no scientific basis in all this nor
there are some it's not like when you have one
physical illness that you know that
that they can do an x-ray and
see in this you do not see and it is part of everything
This marketing, so to speak.
form This is the result of what Spain
It is the number one country in consumption of
anxiolytics, which is what I mentioned
before they were the
vaccines this is a real one
barbarity That I suppose has a lot
to do with what the model is
biomedical but here what many say
It is because there is a lack of psychologists. But the
The reality is that there has been a lot here
medicine culture and a lot of culture
especially from primary care
primary care physicians who have
prescribed many V pinas to cover
which are once again the consequences
of the material conditions of life
from the labor exploitation of prices
the continuous crises of the flats
etcetera no I mean he has been taking medication and
medicating the population and
without it being that because I have no
We know if there really was more
psychiatrist the situation would be different and
Then These are some graphs of the
drug agency on consumption
of psychotropic drugs in Spain and nothing
We see that they are also on the rise and Ah, okay.
And then that would be about the model
biomedical, let's see, well, I was going to read some
data before on the state of the
Mental Health situation in the
Spanish state that this data comes from
of the World Health Organization and
of the National Health System here
of the Spanish State one in four
people suffer or will suffer from a problem
Mental Health throughout his life
77% of suicides occur in
low- and middle-income countries
Since 2020, Spain has been ranked fifth.
European country with the highest poverty rate and suicide
It is the second cause of death among women
people aged 15 to 29 in 2021
suicide attempts and self-harm
increased by 250% in population
young people in Spain in 2022 Spain leads
the consumption of psychotropic drugs in Europe
Well, and then we see that in the world
also medicalized people
They end up dying prematurely both
like 20 years before due to the
iatrogenesis to physical alterations
negatives produced by the
drugs for people with mental health problems
Mental Health are a social group in
situation of vulnerability that usually
suffer serious violations of their
human rights discrimination and
stigmatization and well then say
that for example in the Spanish state it
that would be involuntary admission
There is a sentence that declares it
unconstitutional but it still continues
It is still being done and now applies to
the invisibility of violence is
very difficult in fact I think it is
but the most difficult thing for us as
Mental Health activism collective
It is the impossibility of being able to demonstrate
the psychiatric violence that occurs
because there is no there is no type of
record neither of the income
involuntary
there is no eh Of course when you
They enter and take away your cell phone, which means
There are no photos, there are no videos, there are very few
graphic documents and it is almost impossible
know about what really happens in
Mental Health plants in fact
many people think that
electroshocks are no longer given, they are given
electroshocks and are given to girls and boys
girls and boys are tied to the bed
and adults enter voluntarily and
We have no record of any of this
later I will put some
slides on registration
containment that they managed to make
colleagues from the Mejorana collective
in Navarra and that they are indeed
registering every year but in the rest
of the State are not being registered with
which there is no evidence Beyond what
which would be the report of the rapporteur of the
UN 2017 in general there is no evidence of
that this is happening and many times
when psychiatric people eh
They are wrong Or every time they end up
in long-stay or medium-stay centers
whatever most of the time
It is because there is no type of network or
of family, friends or
material conditions that can
hold and on the other hand it is always said
that it is the disease itself that causes
that the person has a deterioration instead
to say that they are the drugs themselves
those who provoke that kind of feeling in you
deterioration in fact an example by
An example that I find mind-blowing is
that there is a type of antipsychotic
of neuroleptic that what it causes is
that you put your eyes up is worth it or
There are people who have that happen to them.
They start to look up and it is the
typical image of a person who is
crazy and that is produced by the self
medicine that seems to me
pretty clear how all this is
system then I'm going to talk about when
the cases when there is visibility
of the cases and how they are manipulated and
that although there is visibility in the
media even to the
Television is of no use for what it is
the person who receives it or the rest of
people nor to change any kind of
legislation nor of
nothing the first case I'm going to talk about
This is the case of Iván. Iván is a boy
about 30 years that year Well this
year at the beginning of this year
they gave electros at first he signed
that he wanted them to give it to him, I think.
It was like that because many times you also
coonan because for example if you
You want to be discharged and leave the hospital now.
They tell you if you sign the consent
electrotherapy
electroconvulsive you will not be able to leave
so what are we going to do is what is a
blackmail of a lifetime then I think
that he initially signed
and then the family and himself said
that no, that he didn't want them to give it to him
Electrodes. Well, the doctors continued.
forward and what was very very
Also significant in this case is
that even though it appeared in many
televisions that appeared in the press
that it was a rather famous case
Even the father couch went on strike
The doctors continued to starve to death
end with the therapy
electroconvulsive and gave him all the
sessions
that they considered that they should
give it because when the family said that
I didn't want it to be given to him and it was already done
like more pressure that also shouldn't
be the family Should be one's own
person who said no Or whoever
could decide whether or not to elect a
judge decided that it should stop and the doctors
They didn't want to give in and it was a
a kind of pulse of power in which
In the end they gave him electroshocks and
in fact there are some there are some
headlines that are the truth
eh tremendous in the one that says the by
example the one here that says the
The young man's family got into the
electroshock in which he is in the hospital
without consent asking for justice is not
the one that was not what they usually say
survivors of therapy
electroconvulsive which is that once
that the electrosurgery has given you the loss
from memory How are you these days
later that destroy you and that
you really never go back to being the same
a practice that should not be done
give in any way and that is followed here
giving and continues to defend itself in fact
during Ivan's case they also came out
many articles defending the
electroshock even speaking of the
black legend of electroshock not a
absolutely tremendous thing, let's see
put this that is
I don't care
And justice was obviously not done.
received the electroshocks And no and there it is
remained despite all the visibility
and all the struggle of his own family and
other groups that were also there
a companion who is no longer here
llama breeze who participated a lot in the
Tolo pride in the fight in this fight
from the case of
Ivan the next case is the case of
Andreas Andreas was killed after
have her tied up in the unit for 75 hours
psychiatry of
from Asturias and here her sister Aitana who
She has also been very, very, very close
always to the movements and to the
crazy activism groups tried
Well, they collected 65 entities that supported
the family to try to take him
They brought it They dismissed the case and then
They took him to the constitutional and now
I think they are taking it to Europe in
This case is also tremendous because
Andreas when he arrived at the hospital and I think
that had good would have what
hallucinations or whatever and the
They came in and she really had what she had
It was meningitis, they had her for 75 hours
tied until they killed her and made her
That's because she had a mother with a
diagnosis of schizophrenia then
They assumed that Andreas had
schizophrenia because his mother had
schizophrenia and they killed her
and in this case also, that has not been done
done justice has been one of the most
visible and has been one of the most
visible to also talk about everything
which are the restraints because apart
that you go to bed that you still know
defends today for its own sake
dangerousness that the person may have
that the person is in danger
herself or for others
consequences of being tied up apart from
which is an absolutely amazing experience
traumatic and considered torture
by the UN also obviously ends
killing people and this practice exists
to remember that it is also done in
A lot is done here in senior centers
in Spain with the excuse that it is that
the major is going to fall and such And then
They tie him up, which seems perverse to me.
absolute
in juvenile centers in juvenile centers
foreign training and in
prisons and here we have the record of
containment which is tying the
bed once to us in the in the
social networks of crazy pride a
psychiatrist told us not to tie up
to bed which was very pejorative that
we had to say mechanical restraint
So that we can see how it is, let's go
the perversion of perversion And this is
the registration data
containment that thanks to the
colleagues from the Mejorana association
They fought at the time I think this was
in 2017 when it started a bit
the governments of change and such with
the collaboration of Podemos United
we can do whatever it was at that moment in
La Rioja of the left-wing parties
They managed to at least get the
register no that this is not it is not it
we have in the rest of the State only
in Navarra So this is the registry
of people who have been
tied from 2018 to 2022
then the number the evolution of
restraints usually say yes
There is a record that is usually cut more to
time to tie people up but come on
neither and at least you can
report it once you leave because the
The problem is that if you have an income AND
then you would like to report that they have
tied no You have no way of
prove that you have been tied up not for that reason
also the importance of this record
and here we have the number of patients
that someone who has had some some
episode of
containment then the breakdown by gender
It is usually tied more to the
men who also women
for the subject that he considers most
aggressive or less aggressive or whatever and
then also talk about that many times
Maybe they don't tie you up but what they do
is that they prick you with a with a
strong sedative or with a strong benzo or
with a tranquilizer And that's a
chemical containment Likewise equally
that at the entrance when you are inside
Upon admission they give you medication, that is,
They say no when they give you the medication yes
You don't want to take it and they tell you, let's go
have problems and when they say let's go
having problems means that they are going to tie you up
basically then the medication for
That's why we say that medication is forced.
that is another thing that a lot
people also don't know then this is
the breakdown by gender the average of
age of the patients the average per
I don't know very well about sex, they passed it to me
Ana's best companions but I don't know
what did I do but oh well
And this is it
eh more than three containment in each
income Because also Claro if they tie you
once you have more chances that
They tie you up more times and for as long as
It is throughout the English then the type
of containment that this is quite the
type of containment is quite horrible
because it goes through the parts of the body in
the one who ties you up then good
And this is the average of Ay of the
duration
of each
containment
And well, it seems terrible to me what
continuous reality has been taken into account
not at night but we usually go
When they tie you up they also feed you and
And they usually have the average is one day
two days or for example as in the case of
Andreas no that 72 hours until the
They killed and then This is the proof that
In the Spanish state, girls are tied up and
children who are in psychiatry
patients under 18 years of age who will be
Well, teenagers too, but
also also children and again the the
type of
containment and here again the thing about the la
the duration of containment in minors
Well, it's an absolute outrage to have
tied or in what society do we live in
the one that is tied to the one we tie to
our children don't I mean I think and well
then in what is the information
additionally, as usual, I don't know
continues working on improving the
quality of care and adequacy
of the income that is good then
Terrible and nothing And then continuing with
what is the or what is the las
evidence on violence
psychiatric us in 2020 when
during the pandemic when we were
locked in the pandemic has arrived
They sent some kids who
They were teenagers from Ciudad Real
They made a complaint with some with
one with his own testimonies in a
concrete plant of Ciudad Real those
I think testimonies can be found
They are called coming out worse than you came out
can be found in the first vowel that
It is a page that I recommend as a
file that has a file of everything
which is activism and materials about
Mental Health clinic or critical fact
My mother clinic and well
and when they sent it to us
From Crazy Pride Madrid we put it in
networks and putting it on social networks
On Instagram and Twitter we started to
receive a lot of testimonials all
We have collected those testimonies
in a blog that is called what it is
we have on the screen that it is pride
Crazy states there are more than 60 testimonies
on psychiatric violence And we have
pending also at some point to be able to
collect more and at some point that
We also talked about it with Enrique
possibility of being able to do this more
public also comment that groups
like the insanity of Barcelona and companions
from Catalonia they also made one
collection of video testimonies that
also that can also be consulted
so I wanted to read a few of
the
testimonies are very hard but they are me
I think they have a value, let's go
invaluable because of the few tests
that we have about violence
psychiatric and more since since the
first-class experience
person testimony one they pushed me to the
forced into the room and locked me in
over there
testimony two a nurse told me that
the crazy patient is your enemy
Testimony three How to recover from a
psychological suffering in the face of such torture
testimony four I don't know what they gave me or
They injected so much that my heart stopped
testimony cco I was tied up until the day
next asking please that I
They will release testimony six the only thing that
We did there was to be locked in the
room testimony eight what you
What they did to my friend was kill her alive
testimony 24 then I started screaming
and they tied me up for more than a day
testimony 23 I was only 10 years old
They were admitted for a false diagnosis of
bulimia that my mother tried to deny and
They left him no testimony 22 and the
psychiatrist with all his face tells me that
I should be glad that they are
harassing testimony 21 came out of me
room and locked myself in another one that
They called me the cloud and I inflated myself to
pills this I think is the Gregorio
cashew
the cloud thing and then also one thing
What I forgot to say is that
root also of the testimonies and everything
That's something we already knew
But we have proof of this is the
amount of sexual abuse that occurs
committed within the health system
Mental and that they remain absolutely
unpunished because our own
diagnoses delegitimize us, that is
that at the moment when you are going to
report that maybe they are
weighing not because he has a disorder
food and they start to grope you
you can't say anything because you're crazy
etcetera etcetera no Then like this
It also happens every day testimony
57 when I reported sexual abuse to a
fellow nursing assistants
They tied me to the bed for two days testimony
They gave me electroshock.
They tied me up, drugged me, mistreated me
They left me purple and I was alone
Red with pain testimony 58 because of
so many restraints Now when I
I get nervous, no one can touch me
because my body relates it to that
and I get totally out of control. Not even my mother.
can hug me when I enter
crisis testimony I found myself tied to
a bed and completely drugged
testimony 10 present sexual abuse of a
psychiatrist to a patient who was
tada and sedated testimony 11 took me a
great trauma of my stay there and I
has terrified hospitals ever since.
They wanted silence and they got it now
No matter how much it hurts, I don't express it.
All this pain that I feel, I testify 33
They didn't let us drink more than a little water.
glass at every meal testimony 32 nobody
He realizes that I'm there watching
how they tied my sister up between eight
people testimony 19 the woman was
put in isolation tied and without
contact with other colleagues
testimony 18 I felt it was useless
resist but the place was full of
patients who did it and the only thing that
They did was tie them up and well then
I recommend it even though it is very hard
reading of the testimonies and also
I am launching here the proposal that in
sometime we can collect more
between several groups and also
be able to publish them at some point or or or
give them all the voice we can give them
no more than the little that arrives
our crazy pride blog
complaint and then stops to finish
Well, I've already gone a little too far. I'm going to
talk about what the movement is
of the crazy pride That I suppose you already know
will have spoken throughout all the
days But well talk a little about
what history has been here in the
Spanish state, how good were they like that?
movements that began before
and
in the wake of the 15m they were made
groups like you flip out in first class
person and also associations such as
actively and then in 2000 in Asturias
the first crazy pride was celebrated I think
that was like in
2000 I don't remember well but let's say years
before it was celebrated throughout the world
state that was in 2018 in Madrid
we made for the first time a
concentration in Plaza de España in
in front of or where the where the
Quixote we made a concentration of
about 200 people demanding the end
of the violation of human rights in
in the Mental Health system and on the other hand
conception of madness in the year
2019 we held another rally in
Atocha and in 2020 that is also true
It seems that the pandemic had quite a lot of impact there.
quite a bit of strength when it comes to the
people become more aware of what it was like
Mental Health and that maybe it wasn't
very good idea to be locked up when
you're wrong eh there were quite a few people we did
our first demonstration in 2021
We did another one in 2022 and the one in the photo
It's from 2023 and well if you have more
curiosity about crazy pride Madrid me
I recommend that you follow our blog
It's called crazy pride Madrid and well and
our social networks or if you are
in Madrid that you approach in some
Welcome to meet us and then this is
to talk about other groups of the
Spanish State in the photo of Appear
Zoroa's companions from Bilbao and Y
then in Barcelona we have them
companions of insanity who are like that
collectives more than in first person of
survivors and psychiatric patients
and and fighters for everything I am
counting and then to finish and to
make way for Edel This is a photo of
We from the Crazy Pride collective
Madrid in the critical pride no and of
talk about the importance and how
We will always be united by the
depathologization
of all the quirks but also for the
depathologization of everything else and that's it
I give way to many
thanks to
see
Thank you very much Fatima Jo, I loved it.
The truth is, well, I'm loving everything.
the whole congress is super powerful
Part of the testimonies has left me with a
a little touched but well it's normal
eh I'm going to
share to see if I can How it's done
this
[Music]
window is seen I just don't see you now
but
Well
you see the
presentation Yes it is worth it
eh Well, I mean, I think that in all of this there is
a lot of connection eh Also understanding the
the issue of people's dissent
trans in relation to pathologization
who suffer and well I don't know if you have
found out But less than a week ago
Well, there is use, I propose again to repeal the
law that had been passed in Madrid
Hey, the LGBTI law aims to take away points.
important that would mean returning to the
pathologization that we people had
trans again not to prohibit therapies of
conversion and what we talked about
language also not the importance of of
how then for example in the case of the
law intends to take away everything that is
social
eh And modify words like
trans people to talk about it again
condition
transsexual with this attempt to
biomedical again our experience
isolate her from the social and from the
politician I also liked what
they have said the
companions before of Well the
euphemisms not also of these
biopsychosocial perspectives
That's good that although there is still a lot left
that sense because we are still in a
absolute psychiatrization
also take into account how bio
the psycho would be placed in front
after and the social I think that
would practically be forgotten no and in
that sense as if I would like it
also rescue the political more than anything else
that's not it, and it's in the sense that
I want to talk about trans
From the political side, well, I'm going to
present a little what is the most important part
theoretical of my thesis project that
which will be based mainly on
testimonies in life stories but
but well I want Sira to be a little bit
to start debate or to be able to
reflect on these
questions and I'm going to start with one
extract from the campaign manifesto
of stop pathologization of 2012 that was
a bit like the beginning of all this
fight for the depathologization of
trans identities in the Spanish state and
in this case in Barcelona and says
trans activists from around the world
different continents and cities
We go out on the street again
demand trans depathologization under
the motto trans identities are not a
We denounce the disease that even today in
In the 21st century, trans identities
transsexuals, transgender people, and transvestites
are still present as an incongruity of
gender or transvestite disorder in the
recently published draft of DSM5
We demand the discontinuation of the
gender identity disorders of the
international catalogues of
diseases
DSM and we fight for the right to decide
with autonomy over our own
bodies the discourse of pathologization
has collapsed we have torn it down
basis for reporting these therapies year
After a year there are no more excuses and
There are ideas that can no longer be defended
Well this is the part of the
manifesto that was made in 2010 and that
It began to gain more popularity in 2012 and as
We see then in this place Eh In the end it
What I want to make you understand is that
even if there are legislative reforms AND
although it is achieved little by little
depathologize sexual dissidence
There will always be a tension between
between the people who are below and
power not in this case a resistance
with legal and medical institutions
that also have to do with, eh? Well, with
a whole network of power is not good
to talk a little about this condition
transsexual who wants to rescue
And so that is the origin of this condition.
transsexual or transsexuality comes from
of the medical construction and and
legal not from our experience eh yes
we think of a milestone of How it began eh
This Def
Well, we can go back to 1966, eh, with
with Harry Benjamin and his book the
transsexual phenomenon. Well, in this case
book although they were already talking to each other
debating among the scientific community
These questions were also asked
experiments with with with population with
sexual dissidence is not always like
subjects of EEM experimentation
also to reinforce what we understand
Now because of sexual difference it has been
necessary to do these experiments
And well, Harry Benjamin, what
raises that it is necessary to have a
therapy
eh hormonal and surgical in the case of
trans people are not obligatory, that is
The difference in what is proposed is the
term of transgender process
which would be like Well, that linear way of
understand what you conceive as a
sex change and that is totally eh
validated or come by professionals
It does not have to have on one side a one
psychotherapy on the other hand
endocrine treatment and on the other hand
surgeries not to accommodate as to
that change
eh what we see with this is that in the end
the whole definition of the experience of
the transit of people or that is
question their gender is totally and
nominalized or yes or colonized by so
say by the intervention or by
the scientific community this for a
part invalidates other life stories or
other ways of understanding the
transits and at the same time establishes
only one way No and that way has
that being validated by them is not
say in case they think not
because it can lead to what we see
conversion therapies denial of the
identity and in this sense the
trans people in the end since since their
origin, well, with this term of the
transsexuality what they have had is a
control of both your body and your
mind not of of of all his identity eh
from a medical point of view and also
legal not that it is related Eh
Well
This photo is from a magazine
recent neuropsychiatry that the
I wanted to get out of these articles and
It's not that I'm a big fan, but it's like
I like to see in what terms they speak and and
Well what we see in this sense is
that they themselves are recognizing that
There are some differences, that is to say, there are
a change of nominalizations that eh In
This case comes precisely because of the
trans activism that is fighting for
that discontinued But in the end always
They try to put us in or pigeonhole us
noos somehow eh Where
we fit in in that sense no. That is
They need to give us a name
in This model that has also been
mentioned in other interventions comes
of the DSM and the cie is a way of
understand human behavior from
a biomedical point of view above all
It is not a biomedical ia of the
human experience that has taught us
Fatima is going, it is increasing along
of the years And that manual is growing no
while there are behaviors that before
were not considered a pathology and
begin to be considered in the case of
sexuality since very early
beginning has been
and put here not in the on the one hand the
homosexuality on the other hand eh what
It was understood by eh transvestism
Transsexualism as perversions
sexual that also allowed to create eh
what we understand by heterosexuality
not as opposition And well then all of that
It also comes from a model that is about
Everything starts to boom with Emil Celin
who is a German psychiatrist and how good
Well, it gave space as they suggest
Medical anthropologists critical of the model
crap liano which is right now the one that most
is valid and the one that is most eh
legitimacy so to speak and it has good
eh I'm going to say a phrase like this
antipsychiatry
introjection and other forms of action
destructive in the experience Well here
I wanted to highlight the term experience
precisely because that is what it is
subject and and held by by these
institutions and at the same time not
It is that it is not that it is a truth it is
say because in the end what they intend
These diagnoses, these classifications
is to distance him from the entire social part of
all the political or historical part eh
of what we understand by experience
eh by introducing it into a language
biomedical biologist what it is in the end
very difficult to move Because if you
naturalizes certain behaviors
or or definitions eh acquire a
character of truth that becomes
a
anti-drug has been progressive since the
20th century in the previously then by
example in the Franco era what
It was more typical, especially at the beginning
was it a criminalization or a
imprisonment of dissidents
sexual, especially in the case of
homosexual men and cis women
trans in the case of trans men
Well, probably that was maintained
invisibility and in the case of the
lesbian women because it was denied that
had a sexuality and eh normally
In any case they were more eh taken to a
that pathology does not or does not go to mental hospitals
And but progressively all of these
dissidents what have gone
the way they have gone
understanding from a non-pathologization
eh Well here it stands out as it has stood out
Fatima before the psychiatrist Lopez Ibor
not that it would be like a bit of the point of
break with that more discourse
criminalizing and of the law of vagrants And
criminals in the path of the law of the
social rehabilitation is not for one
way to develop therapies
conversion to dissident people
sexual
eem well another phrase that in this case is
Howard Becker's Sociology of
deviation eh says so when a
deviated is caught it is treated as
according to the popular diagnosis that
explains why it is and how it is and the
treatment itself can in turn
deepen your good deviation in this
case I wanted to talk about deviation
sexual because Beyond euphemisms
that what is meant by deviation
and is the origin of all these of all
What's happening? No, what's coming?
Well, from psychiatry and its
origin of understanding sexuality
eh what sociology allows
deviation is precisely
denaturalize this weak speech
Arlo and see how there is a route
historical and social of all these
people who have considered themselves eh out
of the Norm No, because in the case of the
crazy but also the prisoners eh with
This speech by Lombroso when
He treated criminals from a point of view
from the point of view of what they had as a fault
cerebral or more genetic issues
Eh Well also for example even the
junkies that were not treated like that. Well that's it.
as
in that, as sick as deviants in
This case is not about drug use.
which also carries a stigma
associate well then all these
deviations eh what this raises
Sociology is precisely seeing what
way that which we understand is built
for normal and what we consider eh No
normal not or abnormal
Well, in my thesis what I wanted
It was above all the question of
subjectivity and relying on everything
from that more social point of view
relational to understand that it is not a
internal issue as they would raise eh
certain psychologies Not that it would be
like this idea that we are individuals
eh isolated or that we are subjects
individual but also not fall into that
sociological same that ignores the
individual experiences or the
subjective experiences of certain
subjects no but always see it with this
relational tension in this sense
understand subject as
and a subject that relates to others
agents and relates to others
instances that constantly
configure Well in this case eh what
I want to highlight are instances that in the
Tram subjectivity is very present eh
As they are beyond others not as
any person but that I consider
important is the medical-legal field
As I have raised the family environment that
I'm not going to get into it now, but what?
It would also be an important point of
inflection and the activist sphere and in the
At the center of all this would be the system
sexog gender and cisnormativity are not
Well, in the end, understanding this is not what it is.
It's not that the trans person has
an identity or as it is raised from
birth Although in the end it is a
discourse that is used to legitimize
us from activism so that it is not
has taken away that right as well as
It happened with the case of the gays and of and
of the lesbians No that in the end they had
to suggest that they were born that way
Well, to bring it back to the plane of the
nature not and that and that it did not lose
legitimacy But good in this sense
I kind of want to highlight this part
social because I consider it important that
behind everything there is a sex system
gender that makes us a minority and
makes us dissident, not this
case is the sexg gender system and the
politics of sexual identity eh what
precisely what authors such as
batler or Preciado eh is to question this
what we understand by sexual identity and
genre not in all its course what
They pose is how all of this is
configured from the language and and from
the way there is a system that
That is to say that we are coerced by the act of
regarding our subjectivity no and
our bodily experience in this
case with repetitive acts Hi
performatives that are presented because
coercive as is the case of what
we understand as man or woman and behind
of all heterosexuality
cold Well, to understand a little bit about it
that they would propose is that both the gender
that is, the roles and expressions
but also sex and everything that
we understand by the corporal and the
naturalized are part of the social
not those features that we understand as of
man or woman in the end are
socially configured
And because they end up reading like that.
No, but no, they are not, eh? Well, what do I know?
the case of the bodies of the voices
of the in general Well, everything that
We understand by natural not the genitals
etc. Hey, well, for reading a sentence from
pol precious that eh when he raises the
contrasexual contract precisely that
contract more than the dissidents says the
bodies recognize themselves not as
men or women but as bodies
speakers and recognize others as
speaking bodies recognize each other in this way
the same the possibility of accessing all
the significant practices and thus as
all the positions of enunciation in
so many subjects that history has
determined as masculine or feminine
perverse good in this case as
highlight this vision More leather or more more
dissident of what it means to leave the
heterosexual norm and what goes beyond it
sex-gender system that in the end, eh yes
we recovered that part is what would be
in the oppression of trans people
not so much that they have a condition
transsexual or what because they were born
like this or because they have a malformation
or a genetic defect as they all suggest
These more biological theories are
are this not
em Well, in another case this would be it
medical-legal field as proposed by the
experience of
to transit and what and what good there has been
some changes eh that now we are going to
go back because as well This of
Getting the laws is a step
back and a step forward eh what
The idea was to remove the transsexual
transsexuality as a pathology that is in
In this case the identity but it follows
associating a certain behavior
discomfort which in this case would be the
gender dysphoria no I mean the the
feeling of wanting to move on instead
to think of oneself from desire or from
the questioning of everything, of all this
sex or gender identity system
sexual what would be understood is that it is a
internal psychological discomfort they have
certain people because it doesn't fit
your mind with your body not Well then
again as if recovering this idea of
body as natural or or that or that
We have a given sex, right?
precisely highlighting this is that in
the one in the manual written in English is
the word gender incongruence and
in the Spanish translation it is changed
gender by sex because well in the
biomedical language by associating this with the
natural as it also allows deoliz
the whole speech and eh call it a
more objective and more neutral way
But well in that sense we see how the
language also configures the
reality
And well, behind all this, what is
I understand that there is a device
disciplinary as Foucault would propose
that they would be a technology of
government with which it is intended to create
the conditions for governing a
set of people and these
devices as they have both articulate
exercises of objectifying power in
This case formation of knowledge
specific So let it be the expertise
the one that talks about identity and
on the other hand, modes of subjectivation that
These processes would therefore be
pathologization or psychiatrization of
people who pass by
e Well what I understand here is that there is
as a biopolitical colonization of the
trans subjectivity and that beyond
if there are legislative changes, eh
always in the relationship between the
doctor and patient can give or take place
or they will happen and continue to happen
relations of Eh well as of
colonization no or of Yes more of more than
of colonization Well of
H How to delete an experience for
translate it into a biomedical language and
also control who can and who can
I haven't made any decision about it.
your identity would be for example
This diagnosis of gender dysphoria
that one would have to possess in order to
acquire more credibility then would be
the real life T that is good, I already know
is being used less but is still being used
that it would be treated as if the
psychiatrists
and ask the person if he or she feels
man or woman and if he or she has had behaviors
in their childhood that relate to
likes, for example if you liked it
As a child, yes, she feels like a woman.
would raise the princesses in the case of
Trans boys. Well, they did like it.
football since childhood, that is, it is a question
which also reinforces a
little the sex system gender no and and accent
give it as eh a decision that is
an election that will probably
No person would pass that test.
eh but in the case of trans people
They are imposed non-stop to be able to
transit and then there would be the inventory
from the Minnesota test, which would be that
way to rule out the existence of others
pathologies other disorders such as
So we see here people who have been
psychiatric or who have received other
type of diagnosis still lose
much more credibility and and and they have to
go through double double double check
not in this sense because of that connection
also between What implies the
psychiatrization or madness with this
pathologization of dissent, that is to say
will always be United even though
if you think otherwise
And finally, the activist sphere
which would be above all to rescue this
This beginning of the campaign is
pathologization because seeing it as what
allows for other ways to build the
experience other ways of reflecting
actively and collectively on what
that about what people want eh
and that also allows to generate others
worlds is not to say ot
other ways of inhabiting the experience
trans Eh well for example the use of the well
the talks the debates the
demonstrations, that is, politicizing everything
This allows us to gradually get out of
that medical guardianship and psychiatric guardianship
but also other types of guardianship
professional
No, well, to finish this one.
construction of political subjectivity
Well, he emphasized that he is an author.
also very folian but like that
reverses a bit this idea that
Political is what oppresses us or what we eat
I would say puco Well all that that the
institutions of power that subject us and
I would say, eh, how are those people who
have been subjected can lead to
carry out emancipatory processes not
eh Well, well, let's highlight a phrase
that uses that there is no policy
Simply because the poor are
To the rich, it must be said that
Politics is the interruption of
mere effects of the domination of the
The rich are the ones who make the poor exist
as an entity well with this what
It means that the poor or what
We understand by poor It is not that they exist
because nature has made them that way or
because well not all these theories that
It could be raised that in the case of
the poems sound strange no but in the case
for example, homosexuals, trans or
crazy people in general, well, it is conceived as
something natural or that or that is that they are like that
since they were born and it is something
biological not what it does precisely
that they exist in this sense is that they are
political subjects not That is to say, to name ourselves
from the crazy from the trans in this
case is precisely to politicize
It is not saying to stop believing that it is
something
naturalized, that is, by naturalizing it
It is also depoliticized. So how?
maintain this political tension eh with
regarding our experience
allows how to establish that That that
fight not with these institutions
but probably what happens is that
be assimilated not as it can happen as
the LGBT movement like other struggles
and good And in the case also what
Ranier proposes that it would exist for a
side that police that would be the control eh
the hierarchical distribution of functions
Well, everything that is the order of the
social or what we understand as order
naturalized of the world Or as it is and
then there would be the politics that would be
those fights, eh, that precisely
They do not denature this distribution and
denature what we have for
It is natural to say then in this case that
eh we have to have a certain place
Trans people have to have
a certain place the people who have
been psychiatric and that cannot be done
change Well in this sense as
maintain that tension of eh of moving
that power and open other ways of
understand the human experience eh Well
So, ending with all this
eh, many questions have already come up, many
reflections But well I wanted to bring
what it means in this case to be subjects
politicians in the case of madness And of
sexual dissidence and rescue this
feminist phrase that says the personal is
politician and in this case it is clear
No, because in the end the personal even
as internal as possible
understanding from the personal has been
subjected to the sub of the people themselves
trans of dissidents but also of
those of crazy people O
psychiatric is that they have been
have completely lost the agency to
being able to name your own experience or not
either because it has been defined by others
instances So in this sense what
It involves turning it around and what it entails
politicize And well then
I wouldn't know how long I've been because I haven't
I see the screen but let's see
7 left
minutes
perfect
Well, it depends on the rules, there are those who
asks you to
final passes the
bottom Well, I have nothing left
say if your thread is the same
things I don't know
yes let's see
Sara
up to where
you want I have put too much
theoretically already changing the chip a little
because I didn't really know how it was going to be but
Well I hope it was understood and
been to
I take this opportunity to say thank you
Lidia crazy pride Fatima
To all and well Thank you so
Thank you very much for making this
such an interesting congress, the truth is that
It has been very
powerful necessary
We also soak up words because they are
too hard or not hard is a bone
This hurts, it gets bad, things are done
do well of
truth is no you had
lely I apologize I will try
change the captions that appear in
in
Spanish
I wanted to ask you Eder, taking advantage
what do we have
time
How is he?
support of the entire collective
Until recently, the entire collective
homosexual call it what you want everything
color and condition that was passed from the
line was at the point of
look could pass through the cloud of the
What support does the cashew have now?
Fran collective with the problem of wanting
change your eh let's say what is
can of the body of the
anatomy
bones
apart we know that good ones
apprentices do not have our species what
What kind of groups are there here?
can say we are with
you Well I think that Ah the most
powerful that there is is therefore the movement
crazy about sexual dissidence and also
racialized people, that is, I believe
that in the end
the margins a little not what remains
outside of what the majority knows
understands by social majority that I believe
which is also the powerful thing about these
speeches that open cracks and open
open fractures to issues that seem
as
more so that more minority no and that
probably with those cracks it
modify eh understands it
because of the normal reality we live in
we are like
discomfort I don't know if you want to talk or
say something Fatima Ah yes I had one
question but a little question
reflection Because I loved it O
I really loved your whole experience.
the whole exhibition But when I
left with a reflection when
talks about what naturalize
this is
politicize how we deal with the people of the
own collective because we
It also happens to us, I don't know the people of
own collective that wants That
naturalization is not that I am
sick It's that if I'm sick and
then I need you to help me I can't
do it I need such or I what I am
is locked in the body of the wrong one
wrong how do we break that
that is the inertia of naturalization
continue because I live it a lot
like that happens all the time
time yes totally and and I think that it is
very difficult to reach a consensus with
This is not because or in the end it is a way
of legitimation and and it is totally
legitimate. That is, in the end it helps many
people to overcome inequalities and
and that your day becomes more to less that it is
much easier not to have to be
fighting all the time no but of course
It also implies assimilation and
probably new forms of control
Well, in the case of trans people
for example probably even if it is given
a depathologization
eh we will be subject to y again
subject to a psychologization or that
there is necessarily an intervention
social or psychotherapeutic on our
identity to make us more
kind life no Then in that
sense I think that in the end what
prevents is a breakup Not because it is carried out
everything to the individual and and loses that that
collective character I don't know if in the case
of crazy people as you see it Well
also the use of diagnoses No
Well, for example, the same with people
trans in the trans community that no longer
It is so accepted But well until now
little the diagnosis was a way of
not be able to enter
eh And of course in the end Well many people
They say the same, well I don't care what I
put gender incongruence in the
medical report if they give me hormones
Because it's not like I don't care. No or
I want them to give it to me but
Well, of course, in the end it is also a
way to give in
No, of course, that is, I think that about
everything is in the point where you see it
as survival strategies
How can it be a pension? How can it be
be eh Not that they provide me with hormones
etc. But the problem is when
root identity you base it on that
naturalization I think this is the
biggest problem and what ends
depoliticizing and then also I think that
the abuse of psychologization also
in the end what ends up happening
also in their own, that is, by
example now how to combat the
transphobia I need help from a
psychologist on how to combat racism
Well, I have the wound and the trauma no.
as if in the end everything leads us back
to that psychologization no and then
respect for example with I think that in the
case of psychiatric people no
that is, I include people
trans within people
psychiatric in the end the most complex
is to understand that your identity is not
exactly is not that disease that you have
had and for which you are crazy because
anyone can go crazy 5
minutes and that doesn't make you a
crazy person No that Of course that is
another one with a hit and then since you have
having said that about political personalities,
phrase that is usually used by Kate
Millet was a person
psychiatric yera it seems to me
wonderful to bring it here too no but
I think this is also what it is. I think
which is the key when it comes to
to make our struggles and our
activisms I
I think yes, I am totally answering myself.
ai
same
No, but I think it is very difficult.
because sometimes people tell you no but
It's that I, my problem is that I am
sick and of course what does he say you can't
tell the other person what it is
that is a key thing too No
Of course, let's see. I'm reading something now that
I hadn't seen it in the chat in Catalonia in
public health you have to have the
mental pathologies treated if you want
transit clear Yes exactly that no yes
if you have a personality disorder
Well, for example, it is used a lot now
that speech should not be said by people
trans the same thing they have is t LP and
They have a distortion of their identity and
On the one hand they are attacking the
trans experience but also attacking
that experience of people
diagnosed with BPD and well what
we understand by
that is that, I don't know how it distorts the
identity or not knowing who you are not equal
if we use a lesser language
biomedical and we go to a more
symbolic of all of this or or or it
we name the language differently
Well, it's probably ways of
understand each other or understand reality
in a different way no and that in the case
of the dissidents
Well now someone is missing then I'm already
I shut up the block in English. That's it.
It is therefore not good at all, since many
Thank you. Yes, thank you very much to you.
to you See you later See you later See you later
then I am not if you are to do the
presentation
Now thank
so great good
here Uh see If I can share I've only got
a couple of slides but I thought I'd
share If I
can you are G to have the last Hour life
in this event Oh I thought there was two
more is it two more not two more after
me We are Going To Do it not Live Ah OK
So This is it This is it yeah Go ahead
Yes Thank you so much I need to find my
um presentation on the screen I don't
know if I can find it
[Music]
Uh I'm not sure How to Uh share I've put
in the
um If There is Any need of me passing
the slides the Two of them Let Me Know
Send the
the link or email me the documents
anything that you would like
to quick note
on
K We are Going To post Everything
including with the full references links
etc better This
Way
yeah I can't find How to share the
presentation
um Just comes up
with
yeah I can't work out How to
share after to you help to the site you
want me to present for you you Send me
the files And I share my screen is Is
there's no way to do it on here yeah
There is Uh Cuz I put um I put in I've
clicked on the share
screen but It's
not Do you have an icon that says present
Now yeah a Box and
Arrow Yeah yeah It's just not letting
It's just not letting me do
it are we Okay Ah okay I don't know yeah
It's working Now It's working Now yeah
It's just sharing my screen now I need
to share the
I need to share
my yeah That's Just yeah That's not
working is it I need to share the
slides well I do believe that If You're
sharing the W screen
May minimize the browser going to the
the document something along these Lines
really not sure Okay
Uh is this work
It is working with the presentation I
see your Face Ok That's and that is
lovely Hell Just Go ahead really only
two slides we describe them yeah I don't
I know how to do it
um so If I go on my slides Can't See the
screen I've I haven't done I've Never
presented on Google
before so I don't know how to do
it yeah I don't know how to do it I'm
sorry There is I the First time do you
want me to share for you that was also
My First time not long ago we went
through the email And I I present Yes
you Send me the files and go Oh email
yeah there's only a few yeah Ok
yeah The Only thing is I won't have
control of it Will I
But I am Under your command You tell me
next want If I can see it yeah I mean
there's only a few anyway so it's just
something to look at me
Guess we're okay for
Time More Than Okay K and not gna be
afterwards th We have plenty plenty of Time
and this License allows for hours and
hours Ok It's not like there's Lots of
people here
anyway I hope there will
be after I publish this on
YouTube
kind of Crazy the things That good as
long As you don't put as long As you
don't put all this on YouTube Ah You
Don't wish to Because I will I want to
clip it and make it Yes as long as
long As you clipped and not this bit
perfect not this
bit
truly I apologize Because My English is
Still
after You are from from
Britain you I cannot even say Britain
hler It Is Like a game What is what is
the Ball is this really Because it
messes completely the here here I got It
I got the
slide yes yes That's
good there's only four anyway but if you
just Start the Start the
slideshow
from the First
One yeah there we go
Ok Ah so Just Go for the First the First
slide yeah there the previous
one yeah That's it yeah
okay okay well I'll should I make a
Start Yes please Okay thank you okay
Thanks Thanks Henry and yeah It's a
pleasure to be here um and to be invited
to speak at this Uh event Which I
believe is the last day of this event so
um yeah It's a real pleasure Uh to be
with people and To hopefully talk about
um psychiatric abuses um so I'm
Professor Hell span
I'm a professor of mental health at the
University of lancashire in Uh the in
england UK in Uh Northwest of england
I'm also the editor of asylum the
radical mental health
magazine And I Wanted To talk today
about the current mostly about the
current situation here in england and
How I'm currently thinking about
psychiatric abuse
here so Just Wanted to Start really with
asylum magazine Which has been
established It was established in
1986 as the magazine for democracy
psychiatry and It was inspired by the
democratic psychiatry movement in Italy
the anti psychiatry movement and also
The Psychiatric Survivor
movement asylum has a long history In
To yeah Keep on that slide trying Keep
on the first slide yeah Thanks um asylum
you have a long history trying to Uh
expose the abuse of
psychiatry When we talk about the abuse
of psychiatry I think we can think about
it in Lots of different Ways so firstly
we can think about it in terms of
psychiatry itself as a form of abuse
Which Some people talk about or we could
also talk about society using psychiatry
or misusing psychiatry as a form of
abuse we can also talk about individuals
within psychiatry using it to abuse
patients but I Want To talk today more
about a different form of abuse Which
I've Come To Call Psychiatric
neglect but just to go back to the issue
of asylum and How we've Uh been trying
to expose
abuses in psychiatry Over The past
nearly 40 years
Our founders of the
magazine were very much Had this very
much in Mind So The late alec Jenner was
One of Our founders and he Was the First
Western psychiatrist to call attention
to the political abuse of psychiatry in
the Soviet Union in the
1970s Where russian dissidents were
incarcerated in psychiatric hospitals
and treated as mentally
ill One of Our other founders and
psychiatric nurse Lyn bigwood was
involved in whistleblowing the case of
two male psychiatrists K and haslam Who
sexually assaulted and abused many of
their female clients in the 1980s over a
number of
years and patients Who talked about this
abuse weren't believed Because they were
seen as mentally
ill Now this theme of disbelieving and
abusing psychiatric Pati
continues in one form or another
today but It's important to State at the
Outset That psychiatry does not exist in
to
vacuum It's deeply entangled and
embedded within wider structural forms
of oppression and It's often More
complicated than is often
I assumed so not only does psychiatry
reflect and Play it also sometimes
cheng
prevailing social inequalities and
oppression so If We think about societal
institutions and professions they have a
long history of for example enforcing
racism homophobia and transphobia and
this history is quite well known mostly
via psychiatric diagnosis like the
proposed diagnosis
oftania homosexuality and transsexuality
as a mental illness
however perhaps psychiatric resistance
is less well
known for example drapia the psychiatric
diagnosis That was proposed for
slaves Who Wanted to Run away from their
Uh Slave owners was Never actually
endorsed by psychiatry in fact the
emerging profession of psychiatry of its
Time mocked the idea that was proposed
by a racist um
scientist Who went on to establish a
very racist scientific project but
psychiatry did not endorse this idea
that doesn't of course mean that
psychiatry isn't institutional
racist Because I think It is but I think
It's important to also acknowledge the
Ways In which psychiatry has sometimes
stood up against oppression
similarly In relation To
homosexuality while homosexuality was
certainly figured as a mental
illness in various diagnoses
manuals there were also examples of
psychiatrists Who resisted that idea and
actually supported patients to be openly
gay at a Time When wider
society prevented
that similarly with transsexuality or
transgender identity Now um while It's
Still very much heavily debated
unfortunately in in Across the
world um many psychiatrists do enforce
the idea that transsexuality or
transgender is a mental illness but
there are some psychiatrists Who are
gender affirming and actually Support
trans people's right to transition or
for the Medical transition or gender um
affirmation that they
need so When I referred before to the
different forms of psychiatric abuse I
Wanted to refer Now to what I think is
going on today in england
specifically what I want to suggest is
that p has
moved significantly in terms of What we
might frame Now as abuse And I Think
we're witnessing both increasing
coersion and abuse of Mad distressed and
psychosocial disabled people but we're
also experiencing a period of
psychiatric neglect And I have And I
think we have to see these
simultaneously as they're interrelated
Under Modern Neoliberal
capitalism so When asylum magazine was
established nearly 40 years ago And I
think since that Time we've seen the
progressive abandonment and
criminalization of Mad distressed and
psychosocial disability
people and we could argue that This
situation is no accident It's part of
What many scholars and activists have
referred to as organized
abandonment many scholars have talked
about this specifically Ruth gilmore in
the
States and what they mean by organized
abandonment is the process of governing
populations through callous yet
purposeful
neglect framing humans and some others
Life forms a surplus to Our contemporary
political economic
order organized State abandonment also
requires
criminalization in order to maintain
social order and manage the surplus
population people who are no longer
economically viable to Our
society there's a recent book called
Health communism That's Worth Reading on
this topic And I think This is Why we've
seen both a simultaneously a decrease in
psychiatric hospitalization and an
increase in the Prison
population they Go hand
inh So whilst The state and the welfare
State has retreated Under
neoliberalism the State has also come In
To enforce with a Hard
hand um and enforce coersion on Those
people who are no longer able to survive
in this
System so so what we're actually seeing
here in england are people who have
severe and enduring mental health
difficulties often although not always
related to past histories of
trauma Services Being removed in the
name of individual responsibility
recovery and
inclusion and What's also interesting
about
This is that is the current State is
mobilizing anti psychiatry arguments as
a justification for
neglect So The idea that we don't need
that the idea of ​​for example the problem
with institutionalization the problem
with medicalization the problem with
diagnosis
etc are increasingly used as a
justification to prevent people
accessing
Support Peter swick predicted this
situation in his 1982 Classic Book
psychopolitics Where he talked about How
seemingly progressive ideas could be
abused in context of it of a right Wi um
neoliberal conservative contexts so in
the UK the original the idea of ​​recovery
for example has been Used as a Stick to
Beat survivors with When they're no long
When they're not able to cover and get
back to work or off Support and
benefits an activist Group in the UK
called recovery in the Bin was formed a
decade or so ago Now and talks about Neo
recovery as a form of neoliberal
recovery which is enforced on
patients to Force them out of
Services out of out of welfare
support
so what we're increasingly seeing as
longterm service users Who are unable to
recover in the current situation told to
either go and see their GP or attend
accident emergency or rec or um
emergency
Services If they continue to do that
They are often punished for Being
so-called High intensity users in other
words they use Services too much they're
too much of a demand on
resources What we're increasingly seeing
is people Being effectively
criminalized in order to prevent them
from becoming dependent on or A
so-called
drain On resources and
Services so we've seen In The Last few
years a project called SIM serenity
integrated
monitoring which is basically a project
Which tries to prevent service users
from using Services too much and If they
do demand too much from Services for
example If they continue to attend
accident emergency for suicidal thoughts
for example that the Police often
intervenes and they can even end up with
a criminal record so There is one
example in england Where a woman Who
was Who was very
suicidal got a public order
offense for sitting on a bridge
threatening
suicide
or thinking about
suicide so there's been a campaign in
the UK called Stop
to try and roll back this Because It
was introduced to many mental health
Trusts in England without Any
evidence that it supported service users
more that it criminalized them so what
we're seeing is many people Being left
to fend for
themselves Some people do manage to
survive especially If they have the
emotional social or financial resource
all
so others may take their own lives or
live in Live lives of misery and some
even Will commit crimes and some very
serious ones out of
confusion or
despair some patients become so
distressed they May end Up In forensic
units The bbc in the UK Had series Where
it uncovered some of What was happening
in some forensic units in england for
example in in
2022 an undercover
journalist went into a hospital in North
Manchester the Edenfield
unit and highlighted the systematic
abuse
of Which they were restrained mocked and
laughed
at by
staff many of the patients were autistic
and Had experienced serious trauma and
were ret
traumatized Rather Than This Being a
Medical model if you like Where patients
were seen as ill and in need of
treatment What we actually witnessed was
a deeply punitive system where patients
were seen as Holy responsible for their
own suffering and they were seen as
Being needed to be subjected to regime
of punishment and
control so I think What we're seeing
here is a complicated situation whereby
um the Classic idea of ​​psychiatry in
forcing biomedical model is kind of
something a bit
different
we've seen a number of tragic
consequences of this
situation the other Thing I must also
add is the welfare benefit System in the
UK Which has also been increasingly
punitive to people on long-term sickness
or benefits and this has contributed To
This situation in a number of tragic
Ways
so what we've seen is a number of Uh an
increase in suicides of long-term service
users individuals Who might have Had
their benefit their welfare benefits
Cut and also service users have been
discharged from Services or sent to
private hospital out of Area and out of
placement with no support or
regulation Just one recent example in
greater
a young Black Man with a diagnosis of
schizophrenia was discharged into the
Community with with Little or no Support
When his mental health deteriorated he
attended accent emergency as he was told
to do begging for Support and asking to
be admitted to
hospital when he was refused he later
drowned his own Child believing he Was
the Devil and he is now In A secure
I think these things need to be spoken
about they're not Easy to Speak about
but these are some of the tragic
consequences of What I've called organized
abandonment
Yes and we're also seeing not only
psychiatr but continuing forms of
psychiatric abuse in the System through
restraint Over medicalization
and over
coersion I think someone's got their
Camera on which is I don't know If
someone can turn the Camera I mean the
the
um I'm Still
shing I'm hearing um yeah I don't know
that better thank
you cooking It's the It's The kitchen my
apologies That's Ok Don't worry That's
fine no It's completely fine my
apologies well That's
OK So what is to be done with all this
um we can go on the next slide
Now yeah
so This is a very difficult situation I
Think and I think What We have to Start
to do is Start to find Ways to expose
and fully acknowledge the harms That
we're witnessing All the harms That
we're witnessing Not Just the harms That
might fit Our prevailing ideology
Whatever that May
be we also must acknowledge both
historical and current
harms Back In
2017 so six years ago Myself and a Uh
Trade unionist and um
Uh Trade Union activist and psychiatric
Nurse Mi Mohan
proposed a Truth and reconciliation
approach in mental health
Services It's often Easy Truth and
reconciliation approach like Uh the
south african truth and reconciliation
approach where we Start to actually hear
about some of the harms from people
who've been harmed within the System in
Whatever way they've been
harmed This is a lot easier with past
harms that have been officially
recognized so for example in the UK
there's starting to be after nearly 50
years recognition that things like aion
therapy of lesbian and gay people
um was a Human Rights abuse So The
British Royal College of Psychiatry
has apologized for aversion therapy and
some universities Who were involved in
developing aversion therapy are starting
to acknowledge some of their
role in aversion
therapy but Of course this isn't the
Case with regarding conversion therapy
of trans people who are Still subjected
to forms of conversion therapy Because
It's not more It's not widely accepted
Fortunately, this is
wrong so what we're arguing is that we
need a bottom up
grassroots restorative Justice type
approach in the absence of formal
recognition so we Start to get
acknowledgment from people themselves
about the harms that they've
experienced and bringing people together
Who feels like they've been harmed in the
System as well as people who feel like
they've been helped and All the Ways In
which people feel they've been harmed
alongside professionals and workers in
the
System and to Start to really Listen
deeply to What people's experiences are
actually like both historically and
contemporary without imposing Our own
ideology on that
whether That's Pro psychiatry anti
psychiatry or We have an alternative um
psychiatry in Mind without an agenda and
without imposing alternative Solutions
It's important that Any Any restorative
Justice approach like This is led by
people themselves who have been harmed
in the
System social Justice can easily become
politicized by campaigners of all